176
Copy F into F’;While desired coverage has not reached   While more faults are being detected      Perform random test generation;   End while;End while;For every f in F’ (remaining faults)   Insert f ;
      Perform deterministic test generation, t;   Mark f as detected, drop from F’;   Add t to T;   For every g in F’ (remaining faults)      Inject g;      Apply t;         Simulate faulty circuit;
  Remove g;
      If g is detected by t         Mark g as detected, drop from F’;
Endif;
   End for ;
End for;
Fig. 6.1  Two-phase random, deterministic test generation6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
Fault-oriented test generation deals with single stuck-at fault model, i.e., it generates tests 
assuming there is only one fault in the circuit, and that is of stuck-at-value type. Although this assumption and model may appear as too limiting, a test set that detects a good percentage of single stuck-at faults also results in a good coverage of multiple faults of stuck-at and other fault types.
Most deterministic test generation methods are fault-oriented, and the subsections that follow 
discuss various algorithms and methods for this purpose. Before getting into specific algorithms, the section that follows illustrates the use of deterministic fault-oriented test generation in a complete test generation environments.
6.1.1  Two-phase Test Generation
Because of the high cost of deterministic fault-oriented test generations and the number of faults that have to be dealt with, such test generation methods are usually used along with and as compli-mentary to random and functional test generation. Random test generation methods usually yield 60–80% fault coverage and can be generated much faster than deterministic methods. We regard random or functional as the first phase of test generation, and deterministic as the second phase of a complete test generation scheme.
Figure 6.1 shows a two-phase test generation procedure that involves random and deterministic 
methods.
As shown in this figure, the TG process begins with random test generation. This phase con-
tinues until the random test generation procedure exits, either because an acceptable coverage has been reached or because too many random vectors with unacceptable coverage have been tried. The algorithms discussed in Sect.  5.3 of Chap.  5, Figs.  5.24 and 5.28 are the type of algorithms 
we use in this first phase of TG. After exiting the RTG phase, Fig. 6.1 shows a for loop for fault-
oriented deterministic test generation. In this loop, faults have not been detected by the RTG 
177
Fig. 6.2  A simple case of test generation6.1 Deterministic Test Generation Methods
while loop are targeted. Referring back to the exponential growth of detected faults, discussed in the previous chapter (Fig.  5.20), the second phase targets the last 20–40% faults that have not 
been detected yet.
After injection of a fault and finding test t for detecting that specific fault, a fault simulation loop 
(inner for loop in Fig. 6.1) check t to see which undetected faults, in addition to the fault that was 
originally targeted, it detects. This fault simulation phase causes fewer deterministic fault-oriented test generation passes.
6.1.2  Fault-oriented TG Basics
By use of several test cases and a small circuit, we present basics of test generation procedures and introduce terms and definitions that will be used in formal TG algorithms. Test generation tries to set values on circuit lines that can be controlled by a tester (primary inputs), and propagate fault to lines that can be observed by the tester (primary outputs), such that value at the primary output of the good circuit and faulty circuit are different.6.1.2.1  Basic TG Procedure
Test generation for a fault like the SA0 fault in Fig. 6.2 begins with setting all inputs to X and propagat-
ing this value through all circuit lines to reach the primary outputs. The value X is unknown or do not care. In a test vector, X means that the corresponding input position can take either a 0 or a 1 value.
Test generation for l
7:SA0 begins with trying to force a 1 on this line to make the fault show itself. 
This is achieved by a 1 on the inverter output, and thus a 0 on a primary input. Therefore, the starting 
32 value of X on a changes to 0. Next, we try to propagate the fault effect to the circuit primary 
output. For now, we use the 1/0 notation for good/faulty line values, which means l7 is 1/0. Effect 
of fault on line l7 can only get closer to the circuit’s primary output if it passes through G3 which 
requires l2 to become 1. In this case, the good/faulty value on l11 becomes 1/0. To have a 1 on l2, 
input b must become 1.
178
Table 6.1 D Notation
Composite Definition  D notation
0/0 Good 0, Faulty 0  0
1/1 Good 1, Faulty 1  1
1/0 Good 1, Faulty 0  D
0/1XGood 0, Faulty 1Don’t care
D
 X6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
In order to propagate fault effect that is now on l11 closer to the circuit’s primary output, we have 
to have a 0 on l12. This makes l14 take 1/0 value and in order to achieve l12 of 0, either l3 or l9 must 
be 0. We choose l3 and make this line 0, by just setting input c to 0.
We need to take one more step to make the fault effect get to the circuit’s w output and that is to 
set l13 to 1 to propagate value on l14, that is now 1/0, to l15 which is the circuit’s primary output. As 
for l13, this line can be set to 1 by setting either l10 or l6 to 1. Since it is easier to set l6 to 1, we take 
this route, which requires input f to become 1. At this point, we have input values that cause the 
effect of l7 :SA0 to appear on circuit primary output. Thus, test is made, abcdef = 010XX1. For this 
input value, good circuit output is 1 and the circuit having the l7:SA0 fault generates a 0 output,  
thus 1/0.
The X values in the test vector (inputs d and e) can be set to 0 or 1 and have no effect on detection 
of the fault.
In this example, in each step, we pushed the fault effect one gate closer to the circuit primary 
output and tried to adjust input values to let this propagation happen. Alternatively, we could find a complete path to the output and make input requirements to satisfy this propagation. In either case, generation of a test vector involves propagation of a fault effect to line in the circuit that can be observed, and adjustment of values of lines in the circuit that let this propagation happen. Several observations can be made by reviewing steps that we took for generating a test in the above example. Definitions and notations are presented as we take a more formal look at what we did above.
Discrepancy values (D). In order to show that a fault effect was propagated, we use 1/0 values 
to designate good and faulty values. A more formal representation is D for discrepancy, which replaces the composite 1/0 value. Similarly, 
Drepresents 0/1 which is a good 0 value and faulty 1. 
The D-notation used in test generation is shown in Table 6.1.
Fault detection. A fault is detected when a D or D reaches to a circuit output.
D Algebra. Since detection of faults is known by D or Dreaching to a primary output, it is 
important to be able to calculate how D values propagate through individual logic gates. For this purpose, D Algebra is used for logic manipulation of D values. Figure 6.3 shows D Algebra for 
the basic AND operation. As shown here, to obtain the result of a logical operation whose oper -
ands are of the D type (Table 6.1), the operands are turned into their composite form, and the 
logical operation is performed on bit-by-bit basis, i.e., good values with good values, and faulty ones are operated together. The resulting composite values are then turned into D values accord-ing to Table 6.1.
Figure 6.4 shows D Algebra for basic logical operations. Propagation of D values in a logic 
circuit is done according to tables shown in this figure.
Fault activation. Initially, in a test generation procedure, a D or 
Dvalue is formed at the site of 
fault. This value is formed by adjusting input values to put a value opposite to the faulty value of faulty line. When this happens, fault is said to be activated. In the example of Fig. 6.2, l
7:SA0 was 
activated by output of G1 becoming 1 and forming value D on l7.
179
Fig. 6.3  AND function D 
Algebra
Fig. 6.4  D Algebra for basic logical functions6.1 Deterministic Test Generation Methods
Fault propagation. Fault propagation occurs when a D or Dvalue advances toward circuit 
primary outputs. In our example, circuit propagation of D from line l7 to l11 or propagation of D from 
l11 to l14 is regarded as fault propagation.
Sensitized line. A line in a circuit to which a fault has propagated is called a sensitized line. Line 
l11 is a sensitized line.
Sensitized path. A path between site of fault and lines in the circuit that contain a continuous 
sequence of sensitized lines is a sensitized path. A fault is detected if there is a sensitized path 
180
Fig. 6.5  Single sensitized path6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
between site of fault and a primary output. Lines l7, l11, l14, and l15 form a sensitized path between 
site of l7:SA0 and w primary output.
Justification.  The process of adjusting circuit input values to activate a fault or to facilitate propa-
gation of a fault toward an output is called input justification . In Fig.  6.2, activating l7:SA0  requires 
a to become 0. Therefore, the good value 1 on l7 is justified by a 0 on a. Also propagation of D on 
l11 to l14 requires l12 to become 0. This requirement is justified by a 0 on c.
Implication.  In justification, a primary input is set to justify a required value on a circuit line. In 
circuits with fanout, setting the primary input may affect other parts of the circuit that were originally 
not intended. The process of propagating a primary input value to all parts of the circuit that it 
affects is called implication .
Making choices.  In test generation process, often there are several choices for achieving the same 
goal. Usually, we select the easiest choice and only go back to other choices if our initial selection 
fails. In the example of Fig.  6.2, there were several places that we had to make a choice between 
several possibly good solutions. Take, for example, propagation of D from l11 to l14 that required l12 
to be 0. This goal could be achieved by setting l3 or l9 to 0. We chose l3 since it was closer to a 
primary input and could be set more easily. On the other hand, selecting l9 to be 0, would be justified 
by d = e = 0. Through implication, this input combination would put a 0 on l10, which would limit 
our choices for propagating D from l14 to l15.
Back tracking . Where choices exist, we make a selection based on what seems to be the best for 
propagation of values. However, through implication, a choice, which may seem the best at first, 
may block propagation of fault values elsewhere in the circuit. In such cases, we return to places 
where choices exist, reset  all circuit values to their values before the first choice was made, and 
make a different choice. This process is referred to as back tracking .
6.1.2.2   A More Formal Approach to TG
With the above definitions, we are now ready to look at another test generation example and apply 
the definitions to it. Consider test generation for l8:SA0 in circuit of Fig.  6.5. This fault is represented 
by the D value and is activated by a 1 on d. An equally easy choice of setting e to 1 would also 
activate this fault. To detect this fault, we select the sensitized path shown, along which all gate 
181
Fig. 6.6  Circuit with reconvergent fanout, trying single sensitized path6.1 Deterministic Test Generation Methods
outputs leading to w are D. This path sensitization requires justification of 1, 0, and 1 on lines l3, l11, 
and l13, respectively. Setting primary input c to 1 justifies a 1 on l3. Setting a to 1 justifies a 0 on l11, 
and finally, setting f to 1 justifies a 1 on l13.
After propagations and justifications, a single sensitized path from site of l8:SA0  to w primary 
output is created. Input values abcdef  = 1X11X1 justify necessary line values for propagation of 
fault. Thus, a test is found for l8:SA0 .
6.1.2.3   Multiple Sensitized Paths
Example in Fig.  6.5 used a single sensitized path to propagate a D value to the circuit primary 
output. We show another example here and apply the same test generation procedure to it.
Figure  6.6 shows a simple circuit with a and b inputs and w output. The circuit has three recon-
vergent fanouts. The following paragraph discusses the procedure we use for generating a test for 
l6:SA1 .
Activation of l6:SA1  is done by a 0 on l6, causing value Don this line. This value is justified by 
l3 = 1 which results in a = 1. Implication of a = 1 goes forward and sets l5 to 1.
Now that fault activation is done, we try to find a sensitized path from l6 to w. Actually, Dalready 
appears on l8 and l9 because of the fanout, and going forward from l8 or l9, we choose the upper path 
shown by an arrow in Fig.  6.6. Along this path, D and D values are shown. Propagation of D to the 
output of G2 is achieved by l5 = 1, which is already implied by a = 1. The last step in propagation 
is the propagation of D from the output of G2 to the output of G5, which requires a 0 on l12 input of 
this gate. Trying to justify this requirement, we have to set both inputs of G4 to 0. We start with the 
upper input ( l10). For justifying a 0 on l10, a 1 is required on l9. Unfortunately, this line already has 
a D value, and l10 cannot be 0. This means that the requirement of l12 having a 0 cannot be satisfied, 
and we cannot find a test for l6:SA1 .
From the above analysis, it appears that there is no test to detect l6:SA1 . On the other hand, had we 
propagated D from site of fault ( l6) in two directions through two sensitized paths, the above conflict 
would not have happened. Figure  6.7 depicts this alternative solution for generating test for l6:SA1 .
Generating test for l6:SA1  starts with fault activation by justifying a good 0 on l6. This requires 
a = 1 that propagates to circuit lines as shown. The next step after fault activation is D value propa-
gation, for which we select both paths shown in this figure. These paths require l5 = 1 and l7 = 0 for 
Dto propagate in two directions. These requirements are to be realized during the justification 
phase. However, the first requirement ( l5 = 1) is already justified by the implication that occurred 
when we set a to 1. The other requirement ( l7 = 0) can be satisfied by setting b to 0. Implication of 
0 on b causes no conflict and is thus accepted. On the output side, the two D values are NORed 
182
Fig. 6.7  XOR with reconvergent fanout, trying multiple paths6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
together and create a D on w. Thus, test vector ab = 10 activates and propagates l6:SA1 , and it is 
considered the test vector for this fault.
The above example illustrated that due to reconvergent fanouts, certain faults require multiple 
sensitized paths to be detected, and some test generation algorithms handle such situations. The 
D-Algorithm presented next is one such algorithm.
6.1.3   The D-Algorithm
A formal mechanism putting together procedures and definitions discussed above is the D-Algorithm. 
The D-Algorithm ‎[ 1, 2 ] is a tabular, procedural method for generating tests for combinational 
circuits.
The D-Algorithm incorporates propagation, justification, and implication and uses a table of 
circuit line values for representation of results of these processes. This algorithm implements multiple 
sensitized paths, where needed to reach an answer. Cubical representation of logic functions are 
used for representing them. To represent line values, the D-Algorithm uses test cube. Initially, all 
values in a test cube are X. Starting with an all-X test cube, the D-Algorithm injects a fault by 
introducing a D into the test cube. A series of justifications and propagations in the circuit progres-
sively change Xs in the test cube to 1, 0, D, and D. When completed, the test cube contains circuit 
input values for detection of the fault, all circuit line values, and circuit primary output values.
This algorithm works with the concept of cubical representations for logical structures and 
processes cubes representing logical functions and error representations from various lists. Basic 
logic primitives are handled in D-Algorithm, but any logical function that can be represented in cubical 
form can be used as a basic structure in the D-Algorithm. Cubes and corresponding lists are 
discussed below.
6.1.3.1   Primitive Cubes
A logical structure represented in cubical form can be used as a primitive in the D-Algorithm. 
Representing a function in cubical form is similar to expressing the function in terms of its impli-
cants and prime implicants from the basic logic theory.
We use circuit of Fig.  6.8 as a primitive that will be described in cubical form. The Karnaugh 
map and the cubical representation of this function are also shown and will be used for describing 
cubes for this function.
183
Fig. 6.8  A D-Algorithm primitive
a00100111b01001011c
00011101w
00011111P
0
P1Fig. 6.9  AND–OR logic 
0-point and 1-point vertexes
Fig. 6.10  Extracting prime cubes6.1 Deterministic Test Generation Methods
An input combination and its corresponding output is called a vertex in cubical notation. Since 
a = 0, b = 1, and c = 1 are input combinations for which w is 1, the pattern 0111 is a vertex of logic 
structure shown in Fig. 6.8. Input combinations for which a primitive output is 1 are called 1-point 
vertexes, and those for which the output is 0 are called 0-point vertexes. Figure 6.9 shows 0- and 
1-point vertexes of primitive of Fig. 6.8.
A vertex is also called a 0-cube, a term that we only use in this discussion. We will not use this 
term later to avoid confusion with 0-point and 1-point cubes. A 0-cube has all variables of a function. 
Two 0-cubes combine to form a 1-cube. In general, two n-cubes combine to form an (n + 1)-cube. 
An n-cube that cannot be combined with another cube to form an upper level cube is a prime cube (see formation of 1-cubes and 2-cubes in Fig. 6.8). Prime cubes of a logical function are its prime 
implicants. In Fig. 6.8, XX11 and 11X1 are prime cubes of the primitive structure shown. Extracting 
primitive cubes for the logic structure of Fig. 6.8 by use of Karnough maps is shown in Fig. 6.10.
Prime cubes for which the output of the primitive is 1 are called 1-point prime cubes, and those 
for which the output is 0 are called 0-point prime cubes. 0-point prime cubes are like prime impli-cants for the complement of a logic function.
184
wa
b
ca0
XX
1b
X
0
X
1c
001
Xw
0011
P0
P1
Fig. 6.11  Prime cubes for AND–OR logic
Fig. 6.12  Primitive AND and OR cubes6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
Figure 6.11 shows the logic structure of Fig. 6.8 and its prime cubes. Figure 6.12 shows prime 
cubes for AND and OR primitives. Since prime cubes are the only types of cubes that we use for given logic primitives, we use the term cube to refer to them. For primitive logic structures, we use 
terms 0-point primitive cubes and 1-point primitive cubes.
An important use for primitive cubes in test generation is justifying gate output values with 
proper input values for the primitive.
Justification. For a given primitive gate or logic structure, primitive cubes are used to find input 
combinations that justify given output values. For example, in Fig. 6.12, 0-point primitive cubes of 
an AND gate indicate all input choices for which a 0 can be justified [1] on the gate’s output.6.1.3.2  Propagation D-Cubes
A propagation D-cube for a logic primitive indicates how D or 
D values on a given input propagate 
to the primitive’s output. Propagation D cubes can be formed by intersection of 0-point and 1-point cubes. Figure 6.13 shows the AND–OR primitive, for which primitive cubes were shown in 
Fig. 6.11. In Fig. 6.13, we are showing how intersection of primitive cubes is used to form propagation 
cubes.
Starting with a 0-point primitive cube (e.g., P
0:0X00) and intersecting it with a 1-point primitive 
cube (e.g., P1:XX11) forms a propagation cube with D output. Similarly, starting with a 1-point 
primitive cube (e.g., P1:11X1) and intersecting it with a 0-point primitive cube (e.g., P0:X000) forms 
a propagate cube with D output. Figure 6.13 shows the rest of the propagation cubes that are formed 
by intersecting P0, P1 and P1, P0 members.
Propagation cubes shown in this figure have only the D or D on their inputs. Propagation cubes with 
multiple D or D on the input side can be formed by intersecting 0-point and 1-point vertexes. In the 
algorithms that follow, most of the time, propagation cubes with only one input D or D are used.
Following the same procedure for AND and OR logic gates, propagation cubes for these gates 
can be obtained. Figure 6.14 shows the corresponding tables.
185
wa
b
c
a
0
X
X
1b
X
0
X
1w
0
0
1
1P0
P1c
0
0
1
Xa
0
X
1
0
D
X
1b
X
1
0
X
1
0
Dw
D
D
D
DPD
PDc
0
0
D
0
D
0D
DD
DD
D
D
DFig. 6.13  Forming propaga-
tion D-cubes
Fig. 6.14  Basic gates primitive and propagation cubes6.1 Deterministic Test Generation Methods
Figure  6.15 shows the complete list of propagation D-cubes for an AND primitive, including 
those with multiple D or D values on their input. These cubes are obtained from AND vertexes, 
as shown. An important use of propagation cubes in test is for propagating faults to circuit 
outputs.
Propagation . In test generation algorithms, D values at primitive gate inputs indicate that the 
fault effect (error) has reached the gate. Propagation D-cubes tell how a D value on a gate input 
propagates to output (D or D), and which values other gate inputs must have to allow the propaga -
tion (1 or 0). Propagation D-cubes with multiple D or Dvalues (e.g., Fig.  6.15) are used in multi-
path sensitization test generation methods.
186
00 0
01 0
11 1P0ab w
10 01P0
P1
P1ab w
1
DDDD
D
DDD
DD D
DD
D1
1Fig. 6.15  Obtaining multiple 
D propagation cubes for AND6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
6.1.3.3  J-Frontier
The J-frontier is a list of gates in a circuit whose outputs are known (0 or 1), but not justified by their inputs. Input values for a primitive gate in the J-frontier are determined by primitive cubes of the primitive. The J-frontier is used during the justification phase of test generation algorithms.
Different choices for a 0- or 1-point primitive cube (see for example two choices for P
0 and two 
for P1 in Fig. 6.13) provide options in setting inputs of the primitive to justify the required output. 
Furthermore, an X value in a primitive cube provides more flexibility in setting inputs for the same output value.
As an example consider the AND–OR primitive of Fig. 6.11 as part of a circuit for which test is 
being generated. As shown in Fig. 6.16, suppose that it is required to have a 1 on the output of this 
primitive; perhaps to activate a fault on the output or propagate fault effects elsewhere in the circuit. Also suppose that the c input of this primitive has already been decided to have a 0 value. Considering 
primitive cubes of Fig. 6.11, these conditions narrow down our choice of a primitive cube to only 
11X1. This means that inputs a and b must be set to 1. These conditions set output values for other 
primitives (e.g., box labeled Primitive Driving a in Fig. 6.16) to be justified by their inputs.
In the justification phase, where choices between several primitive cubes, or their input values 
exist, one is selected randomly or based on some heuristics. The others are saved in a stack to come back to, should the selected combination create conflicts in later justifications and propagations.6.1.3.4  D-Frontier
The D-frontier ‎[1] consists of a list of gates in a circuit with at least a D or 
D on one of the inputs 
that has not propagated to the gate’s output. Propagation of input D value is determined by propagation D-cubes. D-frontier is used in test generation during the propagation phase.
For a primitive gate, different propagation cubes that propagate the same input, or X values in a 
cube, provide alternative solutions for the same propagation. For example, for the AND–OR primitive of Fig. 6.13, two propagation D-cubes exist for propagating 
D on the c input to the primitive output. 
Since each of these DP values has an X, there will be a total of four choices for propagating D from 
c to w. One of these choices is selected, and it is marked. If a failure happens later in the test generation 
process, a different input combination will be selected.
As a propagation example, consider propagating a D from the output of the AND–OR primitive of 
Fig. 6.16 through the c input of a similar gate to its output. The new diagram is shown in Fig. 6.17.
According to Fig. 6.13, we can choose 0XDD or X0DD. In either case, D propagates to the 
output, and either a or b inputs must be set to 0. Satisfying a = 0 is again a justification problem for 
the gate that drives this line.
187
Primitive 
Driving a
...
0a
b 1
c
Fig. 6.16  Justification using primitive cubes
Primitive
Driving aa
ba
b
c
DD
c00
XInputs 
Should 
Justify 0 
Fig. 6.17  Propagation using propagation D-cubes6.1 Deterministic Test Generation Methods
6.1.3.5  D-Algorithm Procedure
The D-Algorithm consists of a sequence of propagations and justifications on primitives taken from D-frontier and J-frontier for generation of test for an injected fault. Figure 6.18 shows pseudo code 
for this algorithm.
The first while loop shown starts with a D at the site of the fault and propagates it to the output. 
Other propagations follow. When a propagation is successful, the D-frontier and J-frontier are updated. The D-frontier is updated with gates that have a D or 
D on their inputs, and the J-frontier 
is updated with gates whose output values are 0 or 1.
In the process of propagation, if a propagation fails, other propagation schemes (through other 
gate’s fanouts) will be tried. If all schemes fail, the gate is removed from the D-frontier and back-tracking to a previous step where a choice existed happens. If backtracking is not possible or there are no more gates in the D-frontier, the propagation phase reports a failure and exits.
The second while in Fig. 6.18 is the justification loop. This loop starts with several gates in the 
J-frontier. While the J-frontier is not empty, a gate is removed from it and justifying its output is tried with one of several available schemes (primitive cubes). If justification is successful, the J-frontier is updated. This continues until all gates from the J-frontier have been removed.
If a failure happens trying a gate justification scheme, a different scheme is tried (a different 
primitive cube). If none of a gate’s justification schemes are successful, the algorithm backtracks one step to a previous gate. If backtracking reaches a node that has already been tried, the algorithm exits with a failure.
For exercising the procedure of Fig. 6.18, we use the same example circuit that used several 
times in Chap. 5. Figure 6.19 shows a circuit diagram and a fault for which a test is being generated. 
The diagram shows propagation paths with arrows going forward and justification paths with arrows going in the opposite direction.
Figure 6.20 shows a table that we use for showing steps taken in the D-Algorithm for generating 
test for l
8:SA0. We will show gates added and removed from the D- and J-frontiers, and test cubes 
as the algorithm progresses. On the left column, numbers show steps taken that we will refer to for 
188
Fig. 6.18  D-Algorithm6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
describing the procedure. These numbers are also shown on the arrows in Fig. 6.19 to indicate steps 
in the algorithm that cause the corresponding justifications and propagations.Step 0:
 Step 0 starts with all Xs in the test cube. We use lower case Xs for initial values in the table 
that there are by default, and bold uppercase Xs for those that are put in the test cube by exercis-ing steps in the algorithm.
Step 1:
 l8: SA0 is activated by a 1 on l8, causing l8 to become D. This value is justified by l4 = 1 and 
l5 = X. These values are justified by d input taking value 1, and e input becoming X. We mark 
this step as one that a choice exits, since l8 of 1 can also be justified by l4 = X and l5 = 1. The 
value D on l8 causes FO1 for which a D input is known to be placed in the D-frontier.
Step 2:  FO1 is removed from the D-frontier and its D input is propagated to its outputs. This causes 
l9 and l10 to become D. Note here that we are treating the fanouts structure as a primitive. Because 
of the simple relation between the input and outputs of this structure, we did not discuss it when 
189
Fig. 6.19  D-Algorithm example
Fig. 6.20  Steps taken in D-Algorithm6.1 Deterministic Test Generation Methods
discussing several other primitives. After l9 and l10 receive their D values, G4 and G5 whose inputs 
have at least a D, and their outputs are X, will be placed in the D-frontier.
Step 3:  Of the two gates in the D-frontier ( G4 and G5), we select G4 and use propagation D-cube 
for the AND gate to propagate D on its input to its output. For this purpose, we use a PD for AND 
from Fig.  6.14. This propagation cube sets l3 to 1 and l12 to D. The D on l12 puts G6 that now has 
a D on one of its inputs in the D-frontier.
Step 4:  Of the two gates in the D-frontier ( G5 and G6), we select G5 and find its appropriate propa-
gation D-cube. As shown in Fig.  6.14, the PD for this gate that we need is D0D, which sets l6 to 0 
and l13 to D. Since l6 is directly driven by a primary input, setting f to 0 justifies l6 value of 0. Since 
l13 received a D in this step, and is an input of G7, this gate will be placed in the D-frontier.
Step 5:  In this step, gate G6 from the D-frontier is removed and based on PD from Fig.  6.14 (OR gate, 
last row) l11 and l14 become 0 and D, respectively. With the latter assignment ( l11 equal to 0), the 
output of G3 is now 0 and is not justified by its inputs. This qualifies G3 to go in our J-frontier.
Step 6:  Since at this point, we still do not have a D or D on the circuit output, we continue with remov -
ing gates from the D-frontier and propagate D values. In step 6, G7 is removed from the D-frontier, 
and using propagation D-cube, DDD, from Fig.  6.15, its input values are propagated to its output. This 
propagation causes l15 to receive value D. Line l15 drives w and this step puts a D on w.
 Note that a D has propagated to the primary circuit output, propagation is complete, and justification 
phase begins.
190
Fig. 6.21  Simplified D-Algorithm example6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
Step 7:  The J-frontier in Step 7 contains G3. In this step, G3 is removed from the J-frontier and for 
justifying a 0 on its output, the 0X0 primitive cube for AND from Fig.  6.14 is selected. Since 
another primitive cube also justifies the same output requirement, this step is marked as a pos-
sible step to return to, should a conflict happen later in the execution of the algorithm. Line l7 
receiving a 0 causes G1 whose output is l7 to be placed in the J-frontier.
Step 8:  In this step, we remove the last remaining gate from the J-frontier and set its input to justify the 
0 on the output. This sets l1 to 1, and consequently a to 1, as shown in the last row of Fig.  6.20.
With the above step, a D has propagated to the output, and the J-frontier is empty, indicating that 
all propagation requirements are satisfied. For l8:SA0  test, abcdef  = 1X11X0 is made.
Although we followed what looked like a pseudo code and discussed in detail each step of a test 
generation process, it is important to note that our presentation gave an overview of how the 
D-Algorithm works. In a specific implementation of this algorithm, many details that we have not 
discussed will have to be figured out. The use of specific data structures imposes the use of proce-
dures that gives very different flavors to various implementations of this algorithm.
6.1.3.6   Simplified D-Algorithm
A simplification of D-Algorithm that requires a much simpler data structure and perhaps less pro-
gramming effort is discussed in this section. The price paid for this simplification is the inability to 
consider multiple sensitized paths.
In the simplified D-Algorithm, alternative paths from site of fault to a primary output are identi-
fied, and one is selected in random for it to be sensitized. Gate input values along the path for 
sensitization of the selected path are determined, and the values are justified one at a time. If a 
justification fails, or input values justifying a required gate input value cause blocking of the 
selected path, then the path is rejected and another path is selected. This process continues until a 
sensitized path from site of fault to a primary output is justified by circuit primary inputs.
In Fig.  6.21, we are to generate a test for l8:SA1 . To activate this fault, l8 must become 0, requiring 
d and e inputs to become 0. Starting from l8, we have two paths to w. The lower path passes through 
G5 and G7, requiring l6 and l14 to be 0 and 1, respectively. Justifying them is done similar to the 
D-Algorithm. The resulting test for l8:SA1  is 01X000 for a, b, c, d, e, f  inputs. Following the same 
procedure, test for l8:SA0 becomes 01X1X0.
191
Fig. 6.22  Trying line combinations vs. input combinations6.1 Deterministic Test Generation Methods
6.1.4   PODEM (Path-oriented Test Generation)
For finding a test vector, the D-Algorithm searches the internal lines of a circuit and sets proper values 
for fault propagation and justification. For test generation, however, we are looking for a primary input 
combination, and not a combination of values of the internal lines. In most logic circuits, there are far 
fewer primary inputs than internal lines, and limiting our search to the primary input combinations 
should find a test vector much faster than using circuit line values as our search space.
In addition to a larger search space, assigning values to circuit lines causes a problem with 
circuits that have XOR gates. A D or D on an XOR input propagates to the output (as D or D), 
regardless of the value on its other input. The D-Algorithm does not keep this option open and sets 
a value on the XOR input that may have to be reversed. An example circuit illustrating the above-
mentioned problems with D-Algorithm is shown in Fig.  6.22.
The discussion that follows refers to values in gray square boxes in Fig.  6.22. Test for l8:SA0  in 
Fig. 6.22 begins with l1 = l4 = 1 for generating a D on l8. This combination sets a = b = 1 and through 
implication sets l5 to 1 also. With a D on l8, two propagation D-cubes, D1 Dand D0D, are possible 
for the G3 XOR. We choose the latter that sets l9 = 0 and l10 = D. Then for G4, D0D is selected that 
puts a D on w that completes the propagation phase. In the justification phase, a 0 for l9 and a 0 for 
l7 must be justified. For justifying a 0 on l9, and given that l5 is already set to 1, we have to use the 
primitive cube 110 that sets l6 to 1. l6 value of 1 is justified by l3, and thus c being set to 1. Implication 
of this value sets l7 to 1 which conflicts with the earlier requirement of this line being set to 0 for 
the OR gate propagation D-cube.
To resolve this issue, the D-Algorithm returns to the last place, a choice existed, which is selection 
of a propagation D-cube for G3. This time, we select D1 that sets l9 to 1. This value will be justified 
by c = 0, and D propagates to w.
In the above example, if we had limited ourselves to selecting input values for propagations and 
justifications related to l8:SA0 , we would start with a = b = 1 that activates the fault (see white 
squares). Then, we only had input c to set a value, for which we only had a choice of 1 or 0. Had 
we selected c = 1, we would have got a 1 on w that does not detect the fault. We would then reverse 
this decision and select c = 0, which would propagate D on l8 as a D on w. Thus, test abc = 110 is 
found that detects l8:SA0 .
6.1.4.1   Basic PODEM
Consider a circuit with a fault to be detected that some of the circuit primary inputs have been set 
to activate the fault. PODEM [ 3] begins with setting the remaining inputs to X and propagating the 
Xs to all circuit lines and primary outputs.
192
BasicPODEM();While PI Branch-and-bound value possible   Get a new PI value;   Imply new PI value;   If error at a PO      SUCCESS; Exit;   Else      IF error exists and X- path exists
         Keep PI value and effects;      Else          Reverse PI assignment;      End if;   End if;End while;Fig. 6.23  Basic PODEM 
pseudo code
Fig. 6.24  Circuit initialized for PODEM6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
With the above initial setting, we should have:
(A) An activated fault (a D in the circuit) and
(B) At least a path of all Xs from the site of fault (the location of D) to a primary output.
PODEM selects an input randomly, sets a 0 or 1 to it, and propagates the value into the circuit, 
after which conditions A and B are checked. Three things can happen:•	Both conditions still hold. In this case, the input and its value are recorded, and another input is selected.
•	One or both conditions is (are) violated. Then the input value is reversed and a different value is tried. In this case, if no more values remain to be tried (both 0 and 1 have been tried), a different input of the circuit will be selected.
•	A D or 
D propagates to a primary output. In this case, the selected inputs and their assigned 
values form an input combination that detects the fault.Figure 6.23 shows pseudo code for the basic PODEM as described above. Figure 6.24 shows an 
activated fault and a circuit initialized for application of PODEM. We will show steps necessary to reach a test for l
8:SA1 in this circuit.
The diagram of Fig. 6.25 shows input selection decision three and value assignments as PODEM 
steps are taken for generating a test vector for l8:SA1 in Fig. 6.24. Bold numbers on the left of the 
diagram are the step numbers that are referenced below.
193
d
c
fl1 l2 l3 l4 l5 l6 l7 l8 l9 l10 l11 l12 l13 l14 l15
xx xx xxxxxxxxxx x
xx x 0 xx xx xxxxxx
xx xx xx xxxx
xx 00 xx xxxx
0x 00 x1 xxxx
00 00 x1 0x
00 00 x1 0x x
0010 01 00
00:1:2:3:4:5:D
DD D
DD D
DD D
DD D
DD D DD000
0
01000100e
a
b0
0
00
1D D D
D D
D D
Fig. 6.25  PODEM decisions and steps for fault in Fig. 6.246.1 Deterministic Test Generation Methods
Step 0:  Initially, inputs d and e are set to 0 to activate l8:SA1. These values generate D on l8, and 
several X-paths from l8 to the circuit primary output exist. Propagation of D causes l9 and l10 to 
become D as well.
Step 1:  In the next step, after activation of fault, input a is selected and set to 0. This assignment 
causes lines l1 and l7 to become 0 and 1, respectively, and has no effect on the activated fault and 
the existing X-paths. Therefore, this assignment is accepted.
Step 2:  In the next step, we select b = 0 and propagate this value in the circuit. This assignment 
causes lines l2 and l11 to become 0 and again has no effect on the activated fault and the existing 
X-paths.
Step 3:  Having both conditions still satisfied, we accept input value assignments we have made thus 
far, and go on to the next input, c. Setting c to 0, causes l3, l12, l14, and l15 to assume 0 values. This 
causes elimination of X-paths from either l9 or l10 to w, which means that we cannot accept c = 0.
Step 4:  This step reverses assignment made in Step 3, and assigns c = 1. This changes l3 to 1, and 
propagates D to l12 and l14 which is one step closer to w. We still have X-paths, and we still have 
our fault active. Therefore, this assignment is accepted.
Step 5:  The next step shown in Fig. 6.25 sets input f to 0. This assignment changes l13 and l15 from 
X to D. Since l15 is the output w and we have a D on w, the selected combination of inputs is a 
test for l8:SA1.
6.1.4.2  A Smarter PODEM
The previous discussion showed a complete example of PODEM in which input sections were done on an arbitrary basis. A more efficient way of test generation would be to select inputs that are more likely to achieve propagation of D or 
D toward the output. In addition, the algorithm of Fig. 6.23 
made no decision for which X-path to use, and allowed input values to propagate D or D to the 
primary outputs in any way possible. A smarter alternative would be to select an X-path that has a smaller chance of being blocked by the implication process.
194
MoreInteligentPODEM();Set D or D’ to site of fault;Justify;Add to D-Frontier;Loop   If D-Frontier is not empty      Select gate g closest to the output;      Remove g from D-frontier; 
      If X-path for g exists         Set objective to move fault closer to PO;         Backtrace to PI;         Get a new PI value to satisfy objective;         Imply new PI value;         If error at a PO            SUCCESS; Exit;         End if;      End if;    End if;End Loop;FAILURE;
Fig. 6.26  A more intelligent PODEM
Fig. 6.27  Backtrace procedure6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
Figure 6.26 shows a pseudo code for a version of PODEM that makes more intelligent choices for 
selection of inputs and X-paths. Issues that distinguish this algorithm from that of Fig. 6.23 are:
The algorithm selects an X-path based on distance to output, or observability (SCOAP).•	
An •	 objective is set to move fault closer to output [1 ]. An objective is setting a line value to 0 or 1.
•	Backtraces from objective to primary inputs [1].
The algorithm shown in this figure uses the D-frontier that has the same definition as that in the 
D-Algorithm. For propagation of D or D values, a gate from the D-frontier is selected. By the defi-
nition of the D-frontier, such a gate has an X output and is likely to be on an X-path. An objective is set that enables propagation through the selected X-path. This objective is used to backtrace to a 
primary input to find the inputs that are likely to satisfy the objective.
The backtrace procedure is shown in Fig. 6.27. An objective is set by setting a line to 0 or 1. The 
line is then recursively backtraced toward the circuit’s inputs. In many PODEM implementations, SCOAP parameters are used for estimating line controllability and observability.
195
Fig. 6.29  PODEM example, making better choices
Fig. 6.28  Backtarce heuristics6.1 Deterministic Test Generation Methods
For a line value, the gate that drives it will be considered (see Fig. 6.28). If the required gate input 
value to make the output value happen is a control value, then the gate input that is easiest to control is selected.
If the required input value to set the output is a non-controlling value (1 for AND and 0 for OR), 
then the gate input that is least controllable is selected for further backtracing. The rational is that since in this case, all inputs must be set, we select the hardest to set, so that if a failure is going to happen, it happens sooner, so we select a different X-path.
We use circuit of Fig. 6.29 to show how procedures of Figs. 6.26 and 6.27 are used for a 
PODEM-based test generation. The fault we are trying to detect is l
8:SA0. In the following, we refer 
to Fig. 6.30 in which a decision diagram and corresponding line values of circuit of Fig. 6.29 are 
shown.
Fault l8:SA0 requires a 1 on l8 to be activated. This is achieved by setting d = 1, as shown in step 
0 of Fig. 6.30. Going forward from l8, from the site of fault, there are two X-paths: one through gates 
G4, G6, and G7 and the other through gates G5 and G7. We use the latter X-path since it is shorter, 
and perhaps easier to reach circuit’s primary output. Without having to go through elaborate com-putations, by observation we can tell that observability of l
13 is better than that of l12, which again 
supports our decision of taking the X-path through G5.
The D value on l8 reaches l10 which is the fanout branch. To make D reach l13, the two inputs of 
G5 must be set to 0. This is the case of Fig. 6.28b, which says that the hardest goal to achieve must 
be set as the objective. Thus, a 0 on l19 is set as our objective. As shown in Fig. 6.30, setting f to 0 
196
l1 l2 l3 l4 l5 l6 l7 l8 l9l10 l11 l12 l13 l14 l15
xxx 0 xx xxxx0:1:2:3:4:5:1xd
e
a
bf0
0
0
001
11D Dl
16 l17 l18 l19
0 xxxxxx 1 xxx DD xxxxx 1 xxxx
1 1x0x xD xx x x1 DD 0 0 00 x
0 1x0x 0 Dx x x 11 DD 0 0 00 x
1 1x0x 1 D D 1 1D D 0 0 00 1 x xxx xx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx x
xx 1x 0x x D xx x1 DD x 0 00 x
Fig. 6.30  PODEM input selections6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
(Step 1) satisfies this objective. We now have to set the other input (l17) of G5 OR gate to 0 (an easier 
objective that l19). Setting e to 0, as shown in Fig. 6.30 (Step 2), achieves this.
At this point, we have a D on l13 input of G7, and there is an X-path from this gate to the circuit 
primary output. Our objective is now set as l14 receiving a 1. We can either try to satisfy this objec-
tive now by setting values to inputs a, b, and c or narrow down our choice of inputs by backtracing 
one step further toward the circuit inputs. We take the latter option and set our objective to l11 receiv-
ing a 1. Note that since the G6 OR gate requires a controlling value to set its output to 1, we take 
the easier route of trying to achieve this by l11 set to 1, instead of l12.
Figure 6.30 shows that for achieving the l11 = 1 objective, a is set to 0 (Step 3), then b = 0 violates 
the objective (Step 4), and we backtrack and choose b = 1 (Step 5). Input combination 
abcdefg = 01X100X detects l8:SA0.
6.1.5  Other Deterministic Fault-oriented TG Methods
For about two decades, the D-Algorithm was regarded as the main algorithm for test generation, and most other methods were variations of this algorithm, or just different implementations. In the early 1980s, PODEM started a new line in test generation. Although PODEM uses many features and definitions of the D-Algorithm, it is conceptually different, because of assignment of values to the circuit primary inputs and the primary input search tree. Most of today’s gate level test generation methods are based on D-Algorithm, PODEM, or a combination of both.6.1.5.1  Fan
FAN (fanout-oriented test generation algorithm) [4–6] is based on PODEM. This algorithm opti-mizes the search for an input combination by adding several heuristics to PODEM.
In FAN, backtracing stops at the cone output of a fanout-free section of a CUT. This is justified, 
because inputs of such a cone do not affect other parts of the circuit and cannot, in any way, cause violation of an objective through other paths. This feature is similar to the way we handled our backtracing in the example of Fig. 6.29. After step 2, we decided to set our objective to l
11 = 1. l11 
is the output of a fanout-free section, whose inputs are a and b. Steps 3 and 4 in our example only 
set values to inputs of this section of the circuit.
197
CPTG();Select a PO, set it to 0;   Recursively find critical paths, leading to inputs;   Input values for CP constitute a test;   Faults along the CP are detected;Repeat for PO value of 1;
Fig. 6.31  Critical path tracing TG6.1 Deterministic Test Generation Methods
Another feature of FAN is the use of multiple backtraces. For a gate that requires non-control values 
on its inputs, all such inputs will be backtraced simultaneously. Unique sensitized path is another optimizing feature in FAN. When the D-frontier contains only one gate, FAN finds a sensitized path from this gate to the circuit primary output. This eliminates unnecessary assignment of input values that would have to be reversed when they are found to block the only way that is to a circuit output.6.1.5.2  Socrates
As FAN took off from PODEM and added optimizations to it, SOCRATES [7–9] started with FAN and added improvements to features of FAN that we discussed. Perhaps the most important feature of SOCRATES is its support for high-level RT level components like adders and multiplexers. Using RT level components as primitives eases backtracing and propagation of D values by taking bigger steps in the circuit.
6.1.6  Fault-independent Test Generation
Fault-oriented test generation algorithms, such as the D-Algorithm, PODEM, and all their varia-tions, start at the site of fault and work forward and backward in the circuit to find a test. Fault-independent test generation programs, on the other hand, decide on a test vector and then decide what faults it detects.
A deterministic fault-independent test generation method is critical path tracing (CPT) ‎[10–13]. 
This method is based on critical paths discussed in Sect. 4.3.5 (Chap. 4) for fault simulation. The 
CPT method starts at a primary output and finds critical paths that are justified by the inputs. The input vector forming the critical path is the test vector for all faults along the path. Figure 6.31 
shows a simplified pseudo code for CPT test generation.
Starting with the output of a circuit, CPT sets a value on a line that is in the critical path, and 
based on this value finds critical paths leading to circuit primary inputs. Each critical line can take either a 0 or a 1, and selection of either can make different critical paths. When a choice of values for a line exists, a value is selected, and the line is marked. When a critical path reaches circuit primary inputs, faults along the path are marked as detected by vector at input. Then, the algorithm returns to the last place when a choice of 0 or 1 has not been tried.
Since by definition of critical paths, an output is on a critical path, CPT test generation starts with 
a 0 or 1 on an output. The recursive process mentioned above is executed until it reaches back to the output. At this time, the output is assigned the other logic value (1 or 0) and the process continues.
We use circuit of Fig. 6.32 to execute one pass of the above recursive procedure. In this pass, by 
selecting appropriate line values, we can find critical paths that cover more of the circuit lines; thus, 
198
Fig. 6.32  CPT example6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
the generated test covers more number of circuit faults. Line values and critical paths that are generated are shown in this figure. The following paragraphs explain how values are assigned.
We start by assigning a 1 to circuit output. This makes l
12 our first critical line. A 1 on l11 and a 
1 on l10 justify l12 = 1, and make both lines l11 and l10 critical. Taking the upper path (l11 backward), 
l8 and l9 justify l11 = 1, and make l9 a critical line. The 1 on l9 is justified by l3 = l4 = 1 making these 
lines also critical, as marked in Fig. 6.32. This assignment makes inputs c and d equal to 1.
Backing up to G5, for justifying a 1 on l11, l8 must be 0, that is justified by b = 0 and a = X. This 
assignment does not create any new critical lines and just provides proper conditions for l9 being 
critical.
Now we return to G6, where we previously took the upper path through l11. The lower input of G6, 
line l10, is also critical. This critical value is justified by e = 0 and f = 1, making l6 also critical.
The above pass sets inputs a, b, c, d, e, and f to X, 0, 1, 1, 0, and 1 respectively. This input com-
bination detects the following faults:
l3:SA0, l4:SA0, l9:SA0, l11:SA0, l6:SA0, l10:SA0, and l12:SA0.
For detection of other faults, we return to places when choices existed for critical paths. The most 
recent place is the assignment of l5 = 1 and l6 = 0, instead of the earlier 0 and 1 values. This choice 
detects a new fault, l5:SA0. When this is taken care of, we return to G5, where a similar situation 
exists. When all choices have been tried, we go back to the w output and try w = 0.
CPT test generation is simple, fast, and requires a very simple data structure. The problem with 
this method is inability to handle fanout stems properly. As discussed in Sect. 4.3.5, determining if 
a fanout stem is critical requires simulation. This forward simulation pass requires a different data structure than that used for output to input path tracing and is a time-consuming process. CPT TG is most useful when dealing with fanout-free circuits.
6.2  Sequential Circuit Test Generation
Other than random techniques, all other algorithms we discussed in this chapter apply to combinational circuits. In spite of all the research done on this subject, deterministic fault-oriented test generation for sequential circuits still is in the research stages, and there are no good practical solutions. Practically, sequential circuits are turned into combinational circuits with design for test techniques, and combina-tional test generation methods are applied to them. These techniques will be discussed in Chap. 7.
199
Fig. 6.34  Mealy 1011 detectorQ
Q
clkCombinational 
Part 
Combinational 
Part PI PO
State
InputsState
Outputs
Huffman Model A Combinatial Slice
Fig. 6.33  Time frame expansion (each slice)6.2 Sequential Circuit Test Generation
This section discusses a sequential circuit test generation technique that expands the sequential 
circuit under test into several time frames and applies the D-Algorithm to this circuit. This tech-nique is typical of most sequential circuit TG techniques. Such methods have a limited use in practice.
As shown in Fig. 6.33, the time frame expansion sequential circuit TG method‎ [14] unrolls a 
sequential circuit by removing its flip-flops, and repeating its combination part several times. The flip-flop outputs become the state inputs of the combinational part and the flip-flop inputs are the combinational part state outputs. When several of the combinational parts are repeated, the state outputs of one become the state inputs of the next.
For test generation, a given fault is injected in one of the combinational slices, and propagation 
into the next slices and justification through the previous slices are done just like the D-Algorithm. Propagation continues until a D or a 
D appears at a primary output, and justification continues until 
state inputs of the flip-flops are all Xs. We illustrate this method by use of a simple example.
The example circuit is a Mealy machine that detects a sequence of 1011 on its a input. The circuit 
implementation of this example is shown in Fig. 6.34. The SA0 fault to be detected is shown in this 
figure.
The time frame expansion of this circuit is shown in Fig. 6.35. Initially, three time frames are 
constructed, that are numbered -1, 0, and +1; more frames will be added if required by propagation (+) or justification (–). All line values except the site of fault are initially set to X.
200
Fig. 6.35  Time frame expansion6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
Site of fault is set to its faulty value in all time frames. Fault is activated in circuit of time frame 0, 
and it is propagated forward to time frames ³ 0 until it reaches to a primary output. Then, line values 
are justified in circuits of time frames £ 0, until we reach a time frame that justifies its state outputs 
without requiring to set its state inputs, i.e., leave them at X. At this time, test is found.
The SA0 in time frame 0 is activated by requiring a to be 1, and V1 and V0 to be 1 and 0, respec-
tively. This activation puts a value D on the site of fault. Value D is propagated to V1 of time frame 
0 by setting the upper input of the OR gate to 0. This is easily achieved by the value of a being 1.
To propagate D to w in time frame +1, a in that time frame has to be 1, and V0 must also be 1. 
We force a to 1 in this time frame, and V0 in this time frame receives a 1 from a in the previous time 
frame. This way, propagation of a D value to w has been achieved.
The conditions set above require V1, V0 outputs of time frame –1 to be 1, and 0, respectively. V0 
of 0 is achieved by a in this time frame receiving a 0, and V1 of 1 is achieved by a 1 on its upper 
input. Since a is 0, and the AND gate driving the upper input of the OR gate uses the inverted a as 
input, the only requirement for the OR gate input being 1 is to have V0 of the previous time frame 
(-2) to be 1. This value is easily achieved by setting a to 1 in time frame –2. Note that we have not 
set any requirements on the V1 output of time frame –2, and its value remains as X.
We have been able to satisfy V1 and V0 outputs of time frame –2 without having to set V1 and V0 
inputs of this time frame, i.e., these inputs are X. When we reach this point, we have found a test 
for the fault in question.
To detect the SA0 fault shown in Fig.  6.34, we start in the reset state, and in four consecutive clocks, 
we apply 1011 to the a input (time frames -2, -1, 0, and +1 take values 1, 0, 1, and 1, respectively). In 
the fourth cycle, the faulty circuit output will be 0, where the good circuit output would have been a 1.
Sequential test generation presented in this section was only to show some of what is being done, 
and perhaps to trigger some research ideas in the mind of the reader.
Random, functional, or test by design for test techniques are more common approaches to 
sequential circuit testing.
6.3  Test Data Compaction
The main purpose of all test generation methods, combinational or sequential, is obtaining fewer 
tests for the best coverage. The result is finding more faults in a manufactured part in a shorter time. 
A process that can help reducing the number of test vectors, while keeping the same coverage, is 
test data compaction.
Test data compaction can be part of a test generation program, or it can be a stand-alone program 
working as a post-test generation phase. The latter is called static, while the former is referred to as 
201 6.3 Test Data Compaction
dynamic test compaction ‎[14, 15]. Test compaction can be applied to sequential or combinational 
circuit test vectors ‎[14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19]. Finally, test compaction can be for testing a single CUT 
or for concurrent testing of multiple CUTs. This section, discusses various applications and algo-rithms for test compaction.
6.3.1  Forms of Test Compaction
Dynamic test compaction becomes part of a test generation program ‎[14, 15, 20]. In a deterministic 
test generation program, as tests are generated, a separate phase of the test generation compares test vectors and removes some test vectors or merges them. This requires changes made to the test gen-eration program and often requires performing fault simulation for evaluation of merge or removal results ‎[18]. Similarly, in random test generation, compaction becomes part of the test generation program.
In a static test compaction, mergence or removal of test vectors happens after all test vectors have 
been generated. As such, static compaction methods do not alter ATPG programs and are often less expensive to develop and apply.
Test compaction can be applied to combinational or sequential circuits. Combinational test com-
paction methods are easier to implement than those for sequential circuits. Furthermore, most sequen-tial compaction methods require intensive fault simulations, which make them less desirable.
For a single CUT, test compaction looks for adjacent equal or compatible test vectors in the same 
test set. Merging or removing test vectors happens on such test vectors. Test compaction can also be applied between several test sets that are generated for different CUTs. Test compaction across two or more test sets looks for equal or compatible test vectors across different test sets. Merging and/or removing test vectors happen on different sets.
6.3.2  Test Compatibility
Compatibility is defined for two test vectors or two test sets. If two test vectors or test sets are com-patible, one can be used in place of the other without loss of fault coverage.6.3.2.1  Test Vector Compatibility
Test vectors consist of 1s, 0s, and Xs. In two test vectors, like values in the same bit positions are compatible. In addition, a 1 or a 0 in the same bit position as an X are also compatible. Compatible bits can be merged. Figure 6.36 defines the merge operator; dashes show incom-
patibility. Two test vectors, all bits of which are compatible, are called compatible test vectors and can be merged. Figure 6.37 shows several examples of compatible and incompatible test 
vectors.
A test set whose adjacent elements (test vectors) are compatible can be reduced in terms of its 
number of test vectors. This reduction compacts test sets generated for a CUT into a smaller test set. Figure. 6.38 shows a test set being compacted. In this figure, adjacent compatible test vectors are 
merged using the merge operator. In the first step, vectors 2 and 3 are merged into one vector. In Step 2, the merged 2 and 3 vector is further merged with vector 4.
202
01 X
01
X001101
X
Fig. 6.36  Merge operator
11 0X 11 XX
10 0X XX 11
0X XX 1101
111010001101 X1 01
100X XX X1
0X XX 010X
11101000: compatible
: incompatible: compatible: compatible
Fig. 6.37  Compatible test vectors
110X11 XX
10X1 0110
1X X1 01 1X
1X1X X1 10
1001 0X 10
00110110
11X1 11 0X11 0X11 XX
11 X1 110 X
10 X1 0110
1X X1 011 X
1X1X X1 10
1001 0X 10
0011011 X1101110 X
101101101001 0X 10
00110110
Reordering Compaction1:2:3:4:5:6:7:1:7:2:3:4:5:6:1,7:
2,3,4:
5:6:
Fig. 6.39  Reordering before compaction1:2:3:4:5:6:7:111110110
XX
0010
XX
101
XXX1111111 XX
0110
011X
X110
0X 10
0110
110X1:
2,3:
4:5:6:7:11110110
X
0010
X
101
XXX111111 XX
0110
X1 10
0X 10
011011 0X1:
2,3,4:
5:6:7:11101100010101
XX
111111 XX
01100X 10
0110110 X
Step1 Step2
Fig. 6.38  Compaction by adjacent compatibility6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
6.3.2.2  Test Vector Reordering
Combinational circuit tests can be reordered without any loss of coverage. Whereas in a sequential circuit, because of the internal states of the circuit, reordering test vectors changes the fault cover -
age. Where reordering does not affect fault coverage, i.e., tests for combinational circuits, further compaction can be achieved by placing compatible tests adjacent to each other. Figure 6.39 shows 
the effect of reordering before compaction.
Since test vectors 1 and 7 are compatible, they have been placed next to each other. The new 
adjacent vectors merge into one vector. Compaction after reordering results in one less test vector in the final test set (compare Fig. 6.38 and 6.39).
203
Merged Test1 and 
Test2CUT1
CUT2
Fig. 6.40  Concurrent testing
Fig. 6.41  Test subsets for 
possible merging6.3 Test Data Compaction
6.3.2.3   Test Set Compatibility
Test sets that are generated for different CUTs can also be merged ‎[ 21]. This results in a compac-
tion that reduces test time when the CUTs are concurrently tested. Figure  6.40 shows a scenario in 
which two CUTs are concurrently tested. If the test set for one CUT is a subset of another, test time 
for testing both is the same as the larger of the test times when testing the CUTs individually.
Test set compatibility can also be applied to different subsets of the same test set, for reducing 
the overall number of test vectors. In this case, merging of test vectors occurs in groups of multiple 
test vectors. Figure  6.41 shows a test set that has two subsets that can be considered for merging.
There are several ways in which two test sets (or two subsets of the same test set) can be merged. 
Below describes several possibilities of compatibility and thus merging.
Contiguous compatibility . Test sets Test1  and Test2  can be merged if starting in a certain position 
in one test set ( Test1 ), all test vectors in the other test set ( Test2 ) are compatible with the first test 
set. As shown in two examples in Fig.  6.42, after merging, the new test set includes all test vectors 
of both test sets with their original ordering. The two headed arrows in Fig.  6.42 show compatible 
vectors.
204
Fig. 6.42  Examples of test set contiguous compacting
Fig. 6.43  Merging with stretching6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
Hatched areas in Fig.  6.42 show Test1 , and gray areas show Test2 . Merged vectors are both 
hatched and shaded in gray. Figure  6.42a shows contiguous compatibility where all vectors of Test2  
are compatible with a contiguous section of Test1 . The resulting test set is as large as Test1 . 
Figure  6.42b shows contiguous compatibility of the section at the end of Test1  with a section start-
ing at the beginning of Test2 . The resulting merged test set is the size of the two test sets added 
together, less the compatible section.
Disjoint compatibility . Another form of compatibility is compatibility of vectors in disjoint con-
tiguous parts of test sets. As shown in Fig.  6.43, test vectors with disjoint compatible sections can 
be combined by stretching and merging compatible sections. As shown, Test2  is partitioned into two 
sections, and each section is independently merged with its compatible section in Test1 .
6.3.3   Static Compaction
Static compaction methods apply after test generation. Because these methods are implemented as 
stand-alone programs and are independent of the ATPG programs, they are easily incorporated in a 
test generation environment.
205 6.3 Test Data Compaction
6.3.3.1  Static Combinational Compaction
Several techniques are available for combinational circuit test compaction. An actual implementa-tion of a test compaction program for combinational circuits may consist of a combination and/or modification of several techniques mentioned below.
Redundant vector elimination. The process of deterministic test generation can result in redun-
dant test vectors detecting different faults. Reducing a test set by eliminating redundant test vectors does change the fault coverage. Implementation of this method does not require use of a fault simu-lation program [19].
Test vector merging. Compatible vectors in a test set can be merged without loss of fault cover -
age. Rules discussed in Sect. 6.3.2.1 and merge operation of Fig. 6.36 apply to this method of 
compaction. Furthermore, reordering test vectors discussed in Sect. 6.3.2.2 can create more adjacent 
compatible vectors that can be merged.
Test subset merging. A test set for a combinational circuit can be subdivided into several sections, 
and test set compatibility rules of Sect. 6.3.2.3 can be applied among these sections. This static 
method can be implemented as a stand-alone program in software programming languages. As in the previous method, fault coverage is not affected by test subset merging, and no fault simulation is required in this method.
Multi-CUT test set merging. Test subset merging described above can be applied among indepen-
dently generated test sets for several CUTs. The procedure for merging is the same as merging subsets, but the way a merged test set is applied to multiple CUTs is different than having a single CUT. The exact details of applying a merged test set to multiple CUTs depend on many factors including the DFT method and input/output access mechanism for CUTs. If test set for a CUT is a subset of another, outputs corresponding to test vectors that are not related to the subset CUT must be ignored.
Test vector modification. The process of test generation (random or deterministic) creates tests 
that have a relatively small number of conflicts (according to merge operation of Fig. 6.36) in the 
same bit positions. Such vectors are referred to as close-compatible. Close-compatible test vectors may be merged by changing conflicting bits é[19]. A method of test compaction is to find close-
compatible test vectors, flip conflicting bits, and examine them for possible merging. The examina-tion is done by performing fault simulation to check if the merged test vector still detects faults detected by all close-compatible vectors that have been merged. If so, merging is done; otherwise, test vectors are returned to their original form. This method of static combinational compaction requires the use of fault simulation, which can add a significant overhead to the test generation process.
Reverse order fault simulation. Whether we are doing random test generation, using determinis-
tic methods, or a combination of both, it is generally true that easier faults are detected first, and the harder faults are left for test vectors that appear last in the list of test vectors ‎[14]. Test vectors that detect harder faults are also likely to detect easier faults. However, since in our test generation pro-cesses, we perform fault dropping, tests vectors generated for harder-to-detect faults, which come at the end of a test set, do not get the opportunity to show how many faults they detect.
Reverse order fault simulation ‎[1 4, 19] is a way of addressing this problem. By performing fault 
simulation on test vectors from the bottom of a test set, these vectors get a chance to show what faults of the original fault list they detect. By performing fault dropping, as we get near the beginning of a test set, we may be able to eliminate test vectors that are no longer efficiently detecting undetected faults.
A more elaborate method of selecting good test vectors is to examine all test vectors for faults that 
they detect, and select only those that detect faults not detected by other tests. Realizing what faults from an original fault list a test vector detects requires fault simulation for each test vector without faults drop-ping. This requires a significant processing time, and this elaborate test vector selection is rarely used.
206 6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
6.3.3.2  Static Sequential Compaction
Test compaction in sequential circuits is more complex than in combinational circuits because of state dependency of a sequential CUT. Test reordering, merging, or elimination must always be accompanied with fault simulation, since the test vector independent of a CUT’s state cannot deter -
mine the resulting coverage after compaction. In spite of this complexity, it is worth mentioning several methods that help reducing sequential circuit test vectors.
Sequence reordering. A simple method of test compaction for sequential circuits is to reorder test 
vectors ‎[1 7]. This may help reducing the number of test vectors since test vectors at the end of a test set 
tend to detect harder faults. With first applying tests that detect harder faults, tests near the beginning of a test set may no longer be needed. Test reordering must always be accompanied with fault simulation.
Note that the reason test reordering can help compaction is similar to the way reverse fault simu-
lation can help combinational test compaction. However, the former is always less effective due to dependence of test vector ordering on the internal state of a CUT.
Vector omission. Vector omission is a procedure that results in omission of test vectors, the pres-
ence of which in the test set does not improve fault coverage. The starting point for this procedure is a test set in a given order, each applied to the CUT in a clock cycle ‎[17].
The procedure of vector omission examines every test vector for omission. It potentially elimi-
nates a test vector from the set and finds the fault coverage for the new test set with the original test vector ordering. Measuring fault coverage is done by fault simulation for every fault of the circuit. If the new fault coverage is better than when omission was not done, the omission materializes. Otherwise, the next candidate for omission is considered. This procedure involves many fault simu-lation passes and is computationally intensive, but has relatively good results.
The procedure shown in Fig. 6.44 reduces the number of test vectors applied to a faulty circuit 
by only applying tests up to the test vector that detects the given fault. This reduced number of test vectors speeds up the fault coverage analysis that is needed after a test vector is marked for potential elimination. For this purpose, test vectors are identified by sequential numbers representing their locations in the original test set. Then, a list of faults and test vectors that detect them is generated. Simulating a faulty circuit for checking if its fault is detected is only done with test vectors that appear in the test set before the test that detects the faults.
The first nested loops in Fig. 6.44 goes through all circuit faults and forms the detectedBy array. 
This array, which is indexed by circuit faults, contains the test vector sequence number that detects the fault. The second set of nested loops in this figure contains a loop that marks every test for elimination, one that injects every circuit fault, and one that examines the fault for detection.
As discussed, the two outer loops are straight forward, i.e., every test vector is examined for 
elimination from the test set, and every fault, is checked for detection by this reduced test set. The inner-most loop examines test vectors of the test set that has a potentially eliminated test for detec-tion of the injected fault. This loop takes advantage of the detectedBy array and only examines test 
vectors that come before the vector that originally detected the injected fault.
If by examining only this subset of test vectors, the injected fault is still detected, it means that 
elimination of test vector in the outer loop has no effect on detecting this fault. If a fault was unde-tected by the original test set, examining whether it is covered by the test set with eliminated vectors applies to the entire test vectors, and not just a subset. Therefore, it is possible that the reduced test set with some vectors eliminated gets a better coverage than the original one.
As an example implementation for this procedure, we have developed a Verilog testbench for 
compacting test data obtained by random test generation for the Residue-5 circuit of Chap. 5. This 
testbench illustrates some details, like those associated with clock timing and loop conditions, that were not evident in the abstract pseudo code of Fig. 6.44.
Figure 6.45 shows the outline of the testbench for Residue-5. As before, a good circuit and a 
faultable model are instantiated in the Tester() module. The outputs woG and woF will be compared 
207
For every fault i   Inject fault;   For every test j      Apply t
j, check for detection
      If tj detects fi, then
         detectedBy[i] = j;      Else clock CUT, try next test   End for   Remove faultEnd for
Test VectorFault Loop
For every test m   Mark m for elimination   For every fault i      Reset circuit;      Inject fault i;      For test j from 1 to detectedBy[i]         Exclude elimination candidate m;         Apply tj, check for detection         Calculate coverage;      End for   End for   Compare with old coverage;   Decide to keep or eliminate test m;End for
TestFaultElimination
Fig. 6.44  Vector elimination procedure6.3 Test Data Compaction
during fault simulations that follow. As shown near the end of code in Fig. 6.45, clk signal is applied 
to good and faulty circuits. Applying data to the circuits is synchronized with this clock.
Creating faulty models, evaluating test vectors, and the elimination of test vectors happen in the 
initial block that is shown in this code. In this block, circuit is reset, fault and test files are read into local arrays (wireName and testArray), and after execution of the procedure of Fig. 6.44, reduced 
test vectors are written, and reports are generated.
The dual nested loop in Fig. 6.45 implements the upper part of the procedure of Fig. 6.44, and 
the triple nested loop implements test vector elimination that appears in the lower part of Fig. 6.44. 
The details of these sections are shown in Figs. 6.46 and 6.47, respectively.
The main task of the nested loops in Fig. 6.46 is generating the detectedBy array. This array is 
indexed by fault numbers and contains the test number that detects the fault. For generating this, the outer loop iterates for every circuit fault, and after resetting the circuit, it injects fault i in the circuit. 
Prior to fault injection, reset is asserted and held high until posedge of clk is detected.
After fault injection, the inner loop iterates for test vectors in the test set until the injected fault 
is detected. In the loop, a test is applied, and outputs of the good and faulty circuits are compared. If they are different, fault is detected and test vector loop exits. If the outputs are the same, the injected fault is not detected by the current test. In which case, the circuit is clocked @(posedge clk), and the next test vector is tried.
When fault i is detected, detectedBy[i] is set to the test vector id, j. If fault is not detected and 
the end of test file is reached, the detectedBy entry for that fault receives a -1 value. At the end of 
this section of code, fault coverage for the original test set is also calculated.
Figure 6.47 shows the implementation of the lower part of the procedure in Fig. 6.44 for the 
Residue-5 circuit. The outer loop puts a 1 in the omitted vector in the location of the test vector that 
is a candidate for omission. The second loop injects every circuit fault from the wireName array 
208
module Tester(); 
. . . 
residue5_net GUT(global_reset, clk, reset,in, woG) ;
residue5_net FUT(global_reset, clk, reset,in, woF) ;
. . . 
initial begin
      global_reset = 0;  //initialization      faultFile = $fopen("res5.flt","r");
      testFile = $fopen("res5.tst","r");      // read data into: wirename[] and testArray[];       numDetectedFaults = 0; 
for (i = 0; i < numFaults; i = i + 1) begin
. . .for (j = 0; ((j < numTests)&&(!faultDetected));j = j + 1) begin
            . . . 
end
end
      coverage = $itor(numDetectedFaults)*100/$itor(numFaults);
      . . . 
for (m = 0; m < numTests; m = m + 1) begin
         . . .
for (i = 0; i < numFaults; i = i + 1)  begin
            . . . 
while ((j < numTests) && (n <= detectedBy[i]) . . .) begin
            . . . 
end
  end
         . . . 
end
      resultFile = $fopen("selectedTests.tst","w");      // write from testArray[];       //display results       $display("Old Coverage: %f", oldCoverage);
      $display("New Coverage: %f", coverage);      $fclose(faultFile); $fclose(testFile); $fclose(resultFile);
end
  always #100 clk = ~clk;
endmodule
Fig. 6.45  Residue-5 test compaction testbench6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
using the $InjectFault PLI function. As before, complete resetting is performed prior to fault injec-
tion. The while loop in Fig. 6.47 that we refer to as the Test loop checks to see if the injected fault 
is still detected without considering tests marked by “1” in the omitted array (note the if statement 
in this loop).
The condition of the while loop is the key point here. Note here that while all tests from 0 to 
numTests are considered, the condition “n ≤detectedBy[i]” stops the continuation of this while 
loop beyond the test vector that detected the injected fault in the original test set.
While faults are checked for detection, the Test loop in Fig. 6.47 calculates the fault coverage, 
while test vector m is eliminated. After exiting from the Fault loop, this new fault coverage is 
209
#10;module Tester(); 
. . . 
initial begin 
. . . 
numDetectedFaults = 0; 
for (i = 0; i < numFaults; i = i + 1)  begin
//initializationfaultDetected = 1'b0;
reset = 1; @( posedge clk); reset = 0; //circuit reseting 
$InjectFault
 (wireName[i], stuckAtVal[i]);
for (j = 0;((j < numTests)&&(!faultDetected));j = j + 1) begin
            indata = testArray[j]; 
if(woG != woF) begin
               detectedBy[i] = j; // fault i is detected by test j                faultDetected = 1;                numDetectedFaults = numDetectedFaults + 1;
end else @( posedge clk); // prepare for next test
         end 
if(!faultDetected) detectedBy[i] = -1; //undetected fault
$RemoveFault(wireName[i]);
end
 end
   . . . endmodule
Fault
Test
Fig. 6.46  Creating list of faults and tests that detect them6.3 Test Data Compaction
compared with the previously calculated fault coverage, and if it is not less than that, the test vector that had become a candidate for omission is omitted.
We started this example with 108 faults, 81 two-bit test vectors and 89.81% fault coverage. In a 
Verilog simulation environment, the testbench described in Fig. 6.45 was able to reduce the test set to 
only 36 test vectors, with the same coverage. Figure 6.48 shows the report generated by our testbench.
6.3.4  Dynamic Compaction
Dynamic compaction methods engage in the test generation program [22]. Because of the overhead on the ATPG programs, they are less often used than stand-alone static compaction methods.
A simple dynamic test compaction method for combinational circuits is redundant vector elimi-
nation ‎[20]. In this method, as tests are generated, they are checked against existing ones and elimi-nated if they have already been added to the test set.
210
module Tester(); 
. . . 
initial begin
. . .
for (m = 0; m < numTests; m = m + 1) begin
omitted[m] = 1'b1; // candidate for omission 
numDetectedFaults = 0; 
for (i = 0; i < numFaults; i = i + 1)  begin
//initialization 
faultDetected = 1'b0; reset = 1 @(posedge clk); reset = 0; //circuit reseting 
$InjectFault (wireName[i], stuckAtVal[i]); 
j=0; n=0; 
while((j<numTests)&&(!faultDetected)&&((n <= detectedBy[i])
            || (detectedBy[i] == -1))) begin  
if(omitted[j] != 1'b1) begin 
indata = testArray[j]; 
                  #10; 
if(woG != woF) begin
                     faultDetected = 1'b1;                      numDetectedFaults = numDetectedFaults + 1; 
end else  @(posedge clk);
                  n = n + 1; 
end
               j = j + 1; 
end
            $RemoveFault(wireName[i]);
end
         //calculating coverage          newCoverage = $itor (numDetectedFaults)*100/$itor(numFaults);
if(newCoverage >= coverage) begin
coverage = newCoverage;  
$display("New Coverage: %f", coverage);
end else omitted[m] = 1'b0;
end
end
. . . 
endmodule
Omission
Fault
Test
Fig. 6.47  Omission and reevaluating6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
For sequential circuit test generation, the dynamic compaction method ‎[19] removes test vectors 
with low efficiency between similar states of the circuit. This method uses random test generation for generating test vectors for a sequential circuit. As a random test is generated, its coverage in the sequence is calculated and the circuit state that this test puts the circuit in is recorded. At a later time, when another random test puts the state of the machine in the same state, faults covered between the two times the same state was observed are counted. If the number of detected faults is lower than a threshold, all test vectors between the repeated states are ignored and the faults are returned to the non-detected fault list.
This method requires extensive use of fault simulation and a large database for retaining circuit 
states. Nevertheless, it is a technique that serves well as an example for dynamic sequential test compaction.
211
# The system time (Hour:Minute:Second:MilliSecond) is: 14:57:57:46 5
# number_of_faults:         10 8
# number_of_tests:          81# Original Coverage: 89.814815# New Coverage: 89.814815# New Coverage: 89.814815# number_of_faults:         10 8
# number_of_tests:          36# Best Coverage: 89.81481 5
# Old Coverage: 89.814815# end...# The system time (Hour:Minute:Second:MilliSecond) is: 14:58:07:38 5
Fig. 6.48  Compaction results of Residue-5 circuitReferences
6.4  Summary
This chapter presented deterministic test generation algorithms and test compaction. Chapter 5 
focused on random test generation and developed complete programs for random test generation. Although the use of deterministic test generation programs were mentioned, no specific details were given. The first part of this chapter, on the other hand, mentioned the use of two-phase test genera-tion programs and placed the deterministic test generation as the second phase of such a program.
Section 6.2 then focused on algorithms for deterministic test generation. We presented base 
algorithms, based on which many of the existing deterministic TPG programs are developed.
Section 6.3 presented test compaction. Perhaps this can be regarded as the third phase of an 
ATPG program. We discussed combinational and sequential methods. The most practical and most efficient test compaction programs are the static ones made for combinational circuits.
References
 1. Roth JP (1966) Diagnosis of automata failures: a calculus and a method. IBM J Res Dev 10(4):278–291
 2. Roth JP, Bouricius WG, Schneider PR (1967) Programmed algorithms to compute tests to detect and distin-guish between failures in logic circuits. IEEE Trans Electron Comput EC-16(5):567–580
 3. Goel P (1981) An implicit enumeration algorithm to generate tests for combinational logic circuits. IEEE Trans Comput C-30(3):215–222
 4. Fujiwara H (1985) FAN: A Fanout-oriented test pattern generation algorithm. In: Proceedings of the interna-tional symposium on circuits and systems, pp 671–674, July 1985
 5. Fujiwara H, Shimono T (1983) On the acceleration of test generation algorithms. In: Proceedings of the inter -
national fault-tolerant computing symposium, pp 98–105, June 1983
 6. Fujiwara H, Shimono T (1983) On the acceleration of test generation algorithms. IEEE Trans Comput C-32(12):1137–1144
 7. Schulz MH, Auth E (1988) Advanced automatic test pattern generation and redundancy identification tech-niques. In: Proceedings of the international fault-tolerant computing symposium, pp 30–35, June 1988
 8. Schulz MH, Auth E (1989) Improved deterministic test pattern generation with applications to redundancy identification. IEEE Trans Comput-Aided Des 8(7):811–816
 9. Schulz MH,Trischler E, Serfert TM (1988) SOCRATES: A highly efficient automatic test pattern generation system. IEEE Trans Comput-Aid Des CAD-7(1):126–137
 10. Abramovici M, Breuer MA, Friedman AD (1994) Digital systems testing and testable design. IEEE Press, Piscataway, NJ. Revised printing
 11. Abramovici M, Menon PR, Miller DT (1984) Critical path tracing: an alternative to fault simulation. IEEE Des Test Comput 1(1):83–93
212 6 Deterministic Test Generation Algorithms
 12. Menon PR,Levendel YH, Abramovici M (1988) Critical path tracing in sequential circuits. In: Proceedings of the international conference on computer-aided design, pp 162–165, Nov. 1988
 13. Menon PR,Levendel YH, Abramovici M (1991) SCRIPT: A critical path tracing algorithm for synchronous sequential circuits. IEEE Trans Comput-Aided Des 10(6):738–747
 14. Bushnell ML, Agrawal VD (2000) Essentials of electronic testing for digital, memory, and mixed-signal VLSI circuits. Kluwer,  Dordecht
 15. Miczo A (2003) Digital logic testing and simulation, 2nd Ed. Wiley, New York
 16. Jha N, Gupta S (2003) Testing of digital systems. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
 17. Pomeranz I, Reddy SM (1996) On static compaction of test sequences for synchronous sequential circuits. Proceedings of third design automation conference, pp 215–220
 18. Nsiao MS, Rudnick EM, Patel JH (1997) Fast algorithms for static compaction of sequential circuit test vector. Proceedings of 15th IEEE VLSI test symposium, pp. 188–195
 19. Hamzaoglu I, Patel JH (2000) Test set compaction algorithm for combinational circuits. IEEE Trans Comput Aided Des Integr Circuits Syst 19(8):957–963
 20. Rudnick EM, Patl JH (1996) Simulation based techniques for dynamic test sequence compaction. IEEE/ACM international conference on computer aided design, pp 67–73
 21. Niermann TM,Roy RK,Patel JH, Abraham JA (1992) Test compaction for sequential circuits. IEEE Trans Comput Aided Des Integr Circuits Syst 11(2):260–267
 22. Goel P, Rosales BC (1979) Test generation and dynamic compaction of tests. Proceedings of test conference, pp 189–192
213 Z. Navabi, Digital System Test and Testable Design: Using HDL Models and Architectures,DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-7548-5_7, © Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2011Most test generation schemes look at a CUT as a black box, the only available nodes of which for testers to control are its primary inputs, and to observe one are its primary outputs. This limited controllability and observability of circuits under test (CUT) means complex test generation algorithms for combinational circuits, and near-impossible test generation for the sequential circuits.
To overcome this difficulty in testing, digital circuits must become more testable by incorpora-
tion of design for test (DFT) techniques. For this purpose, designers must get involved in the test process by incorporating testability hardware in their designs and evaluating their designs for test-ability. DFT techniques offer ways of making internal structure of a design more controllable and easier to observe. Because such tasks are handled by designers, hardware description languages play an important role in facilitating insertion and evaluation of hardware structures that are put in a circuit for making it more testable.
This chapter discusses DFT techniques. We begin by covering some of the basics, followed by a 
section on options we have for hardware structures that make a circuit more testable. This section leads to some of the established scan insertion techniques. The section that follows this highlights the use of HDLs in modeling DFT techniques, evaluating them, and verifying their operation.
7.1  Making Circuits Testable
A circuit is testable if tests can be generated for it efficiently, it can be tested with a high fault coverage, and the time it takes to test the manufactured part is reasonable. Testability is a combina-tion of controllability and observability. A circuit becomes more testable by making it more con-trollable and more observable [1, 2].
7.1.1  Tradeoffs
Improvements in controllability and observability are almost always done by inserting additional hardware in a design. This means that DFT techniques that make circuits more testable always introduce additional hardware that results in more pins, more delays, more power consumption, and obviously a hardware overhead.
What we are getting instead is a better coverage and reduced test time, and in some cases, DFT 
techniques gain access to the internal structures of a circuit that would otherwise be impossible to test.
Reducing the time it takes to test a manufactured part is the most important concern of DFT 
techniques. This goal is achieved by introducing extra test hardware in the CUT. Reducing this hardware, its power consumption during test, the delay it introduces in the design, and the extra pins that are needed to take test to the manufactured part are the parameters a design engineer must optimize.Chapter 7
Design for Test by Means of Scan
214
Fig. 7.1  Huffman model for test7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
7.1.2  Testing Sequential Circuits
Perhaps one of the most important contributions of DFT is making sequential circuits testable. The previous chapter showed how complex it is to generate a complete test for a sequential circuit. It also showed that even if tests are generated, application of test requires many clock cycles to move a circuit into states that activate faults.
DFT techniques alter a sequential circuit model in such a way that combinational test techniques 
can be used for it. With this alteration, test generation schemes, random or deterministic, can be used to generate test for the altered circuit. DFT techniques define ways in which tests generated for a combinational model of a sequential circuit can be applied to the actual sequential circuit [3 ].
7.1.2.1  Sequential Circuit Huffman Model
Huffman model, as discussed in Chap. 2, is a useful model for sequential circuit testing. As shown in Fig. 7.1, a sequential circuit is modeled by a combinational circuit having feedback through delay 
elements. In synchronous sequential circuits, the delay elements are clocked flip-flops, and each feedback is a state variable of the circuit.
Circuit primary inputs and primary outputs only apply to the combinational part. Synchronous 
or asynchronous set, reset, and other control inputs only apply to the feedback flip-flops. This model completely separates a CUT’s registers from its combinational part. The combinational part consists of all circuit buses, logic units, arithmetic functions, and discreet logic parts. The feedback registers consist of control flip-flops, data registers, and small register files, including register signals such as set, reset, enable, and parallel load.
Although memory parts of a system can also fit in this model, for test purposes, this is not recom-
mended. Memories must be separated from logic parts of a system, and memory buses (data and address) must be treated as inputs and outputs of the above sequential circuit model.7.1.2.2  Unfolding Sequential Model
As discussed above, the usefulness of the above model is separation of registers (sequential part) and combinational part of a digital system. For test purposes, this separation enables application of test methodologies to the combinational part of the circuit, and treating registers separately.
Since the majority of a circuit’s logic gates are contained in the combinational part, testing this 
part, while considering register part inputs and outputs, covers the majority of a circuit’s faults. 
215
Fig. 7.2  Unfolded circuit model7.2 Testabability Insertion
Also, since flip-flops are treated as primitive building blocks in most technologies, testing a circuit 
for internal flip-flop faults is a secondary issue in most logic test systems.
A circuit model that separates combinational and register parts of a digital system and puts the 
focus of testing on the combinational part is obtained by unfolding the circuit model of Fig.  7.1. As 
shown in Fig.  7.2, by unfolding a sequential circuit, its registers are separated and ignored. Register 
outputs become pseudo inputs for the unfolded circuit, and register inputs become pseudo outputs 
of this circuit.
For test purposes, only the upper block in Fig.  7.2 is considered. Fault collapsing, test generation, 
and evaluation of test vectors are all done on this circuit model. Note that faults on pseudo inputs 
and pseudo outputs (PPI, PPO) of the unfolded model are the same as those of the feedback register 
outputs and inputs, and testing the unfolded model already includes testing the register ports.
Testing register clock, set, reset, etc. are not dealt with when considering the unfolded model and 
must be treated separately. Test results obtained from the unfolded model are used by test equipment 
for testing the actual circuit. A Verilog testbench that models this test equipment or test environment 
of the actual circuit is called a virtual tester. Section 7.4 elaborates on this topic.
7.1.3   Testability of Combinational Circuits
Combinational circuits can also benefit from DFT techniques. With an additional hardware inserted 
into a combinational circuit, it can be made to give a better coverage, reduce the number of test 
vectors required to test it, or achieve both at the same time. DFT techniques alter a combinational 
circuit for better controllability and observability. The model of the altered circuit is used for test 
generation.
7.2  Testability Insertion
By simply adding a jumper, or an extra input or output pin, we have taken steps in making our 
circuit more testable. This obviously adds additional hardware to our circuit, and the use of such 
testability provisions must carefully be planed. Limit on the number of extra input/output pins for 
testing, gained test time, ease of testing, and issues such as timing and power consumption must be 
considered when choosing DFT techniques.
This section discusses various choices that we have for hardware structures for making a circuit 
more testable [ 4]. In general, this section shows how a “test point” can be added to a circuit and how 
216
clkaw
1D
1D
C1C1
V1V0Out V1
Out V00 or 1 
Insertion
0 or 1 
InsertionSA0
0 Insertion 1 Insertion
Fig. 7.3  Basic testability techniques (observability, controllability)7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
the associated hardware with test points can be minimized and/or shared with other test points. We start with a simple hardware for forcing a 0 or a 1 on a line, and progressively get into multiplexer and register structures for reducing our hardware overhead.
7.2.1  Improving Observability
Improving observability always helps testability of a circuit. Adding output pins improves observ-ability, and enables fault effects that would otherwise not propagate to a primary output have a chance to show themselves through newly added output pins. The end result is fewer test vectors to test for faults of a CUT, thus less test application time for the final manufactured chip.
Line observability values are measured by SCOAP or are probability based. Lines with observ-
ability values below a certain threshold (higher SCOAP parameter values) can be considered as candidates for becoming extra output pins.
Improving testability by means of observability can also be achieved by making state flip-flop 
outputs observable by pulling them out as primary outputs. Figure 7.3 shows the Mealy machine 
implementation of the previous chapter in which flip-flop outputs are pulled as primary outputs. Starting in state 10, while a = 1, the SA0 fault shown can be detected in one clock cycle on the new 
Out V
1 output. Provisions for forcing this circuit into a certain state (e.g., state 10) are made in Fig. 
7.3. Such techniques include 0 or 1 insertion and will be discussed in the next sub section.
In an RT-level design, control signals going out from circuit’s controller and controlling flow of 
data through buses and logic units, as well as logic and ALU control inputs are appropriate places where extra output pins can be added.
Other candidates for observing via new circuit outputs are bus and multiplexer select inputs, 
multiplexer and decoder enable inputs, tri-state controls, register load input, count up and count down signals, shift-register mode control inputs, and feedback lines.
217
Insert 0
Logic
AInsert 1
Logic
AInsert 0
Logic
AInsert 1
01
td0 Insertingab
cd1 Inserting
0 and 1 Inserting Normal and Test DataLogic
BLogic
B
Logic
BLogic
ALogic
B
NbarT
Fig. 7.4  Adding controllability7.2 Testability Insertion
7.2.2  Improving Controllability
Controllability parameters identify hard to reach places in a combinational circuit. As a first step in adding controllability to a combinational circuit, low controllability lines should be considered. In addition, by directly controlling fanout stems and branches from a circuit’s inputs, problems in test generation contributed by reconvergent fanouts can be resolved.
In sequential circuits, flip-flop inputs are good candidates for being directly controlled by circuit 
inputs. In addition, controlling flip-flop reset and other control inputs help driving a sequential circuit into a given state.
In RT-level designs, direct control of control signals coming from a circuit’s controller to its data-
path enables testing of individual data operations independently. For example, being able to exter -
nally control the load accumulator control signal of a datapath enables testing the loading of the 
accumulator register and the bus structures that drive it.
Other places where external control can contribute to testability of a circuit include multiplexer 
and bus control inputs, tri-state control inputs, arithmetic and logic unit select inputs, and counter and shift-register mode control signals.
Unlike observability that can easily be achieved by adding the line to be observed to our primary 
outputs, there are several ways controllability can be achieved. Figure 7.4 shows several such meth-
ods. Shown here are several hardware structures that intercept a line that would normally go between two logic parts. The hardware inserted in the line between Logic A and Logic B uses 
primary inputs to control value going to Logic B.
Figure 7.4a shows 0-insertion logic. The line labeled Insert 0 is the controlling line that can be 
directly driven by a primary input. The circuit is in its normal mode of operation when Insert 0 is 0. 
To drive a 0 into the input of Logic B, Insert 0 must be set to 1. Figure 7.4b shows a 1-insertion logic 
218
Fig. 7.5  Put circuit into any desired state7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
that works like the 0-insertion, except that asserting Insert 1 puts a 1 at the input of Logic B. For 
being able to control input of Logic B with either a 0 or a 1, logic shown in Fig. 7.4c should be used. 
In combinational circuit testing, 0-insertion and 1-insertion structures are useful in places with low 0- and 1-controllability, respectively.
Figure 7.4d shows a more general case of driving a line in a circuit with a given test data (td). 
With use of a multiplexer, signal NbarT puts the circuit in normal (when 0) or test (when 1) mode. 
In the test mode, instead of data from Logic A, td that can be driven by a primary input acts as an 
input to Logic B.
If hardware structures shown here are independent and do not share pins with other test struc-
tures, 0- and 1-insertions require one primary input pin, while the other two structures shown in Fig. 7.4 require two pins. In all cases shown, in addition to the gates used and the required input 
pins, timing delays are also added between the two logic parts. The multiplexer (Fig. 7.4d) has the 
largest delay and is the most general case.
Figure 7.3 that we used for demonstrating improvement in observability also shows controlla-
bility hardware added to the flip-flop inputs. Recall from the discussion in Sect. 7.2.1 that making 
flip-flop outputs observable makes testing for the fault shown possible by starting in state V
1V0 = 10, 
and clocking the circuit once while a is 1. To force this state into the flip-flops, 1-insertion and 
0-insertion structures should be used at the inputs of flip-flop 1 and flip-flop 0, respectively.
Testing circuit of Fig. 7.3 becomes easier by use of multiplexers at its flip-flop inputs. Figure 7.5 
shows multiplexers at flip-flop inputs sharing the NbarT test control input. To force a given state 
into the circuit, NbarT should be driven with a 1 and the desired state value should be placed on Td1 
and Td0 test data inputs.
7.2.3  Sharing Observability Pins
Section 7.2.1 discussed the use of observability points and showed an example where state flip-flops 
of a finite state machine were placed on external pins. To reduce the cost of external pins, a multi-plexer can be used. As shown in Fig. 7.6, an n-to-1 multiplexer can be used to multiplex n test 
points into one output pin. This scheme requires 
2logn input pins for multiplex select inputs.
Multiplexing observation points in a circuit prevents simultaneous observation of multiple observation 
points, thus increases test time. In addition, the multiplexer adds extra hardware and delay overhead. 
219
n Points 
To 
Observe
logn
2Fig. 7.6  Multiplexing 
observability points
S1 S0
y0
y3y2y1En or Data
Decoder / Demultiplexern Points 
To 
Control
S2
S1
S0
Fig. 7.7  Demultiplexer/decoder, reduce pins for control7.2 Testability Insertion
The hardware shown can be repeated if multiple activation of several observation points are required. For observing parallel buses, same bit positions of several buses to simultaneous can be grouped, and the hardware shown in Fig. 7.6 can be used for each group. In this case, the select 
inputs can still be shared, but the actual output data pin must be repeated for each group.
7.2.4  Sharing Control Pins
To reduce pins required for controlling n internal lines of a circuit, a 1-to-n demultiplexer is used. 
The demultiplexer has several select inputs that select the output that the data input drives.
A demultiplexer is a decoder with an enable input. Figure 7.7 shows a demultiplexer symbol and 
logic structure for a 1-to-4 demultiplexer, which is no different than a 2-to-4 decoder.
Figure 7.8 shows a 2-to-4 decoder used for controlling four 1-insertion lines. The decoder 
enable input is used as NbarT input. When this input is 0, none of the decoder outputs is 1, and 
220
Fig. 7.8  Sharing 1-insertion hardware
Fig. 7.9  Sharing test data insertion hardware7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
circuit works in normal mode. For test mode, NbarT  becomes 1, and according to value of S1, S0, 
one of the 1-insertion points becomes active. With this hardware, for controlling n lines of a CUT, 
2log 1n+ pins are needed.
For multiple test data insertions (Fig.  7.4d), a demultiplexer helps reducing input pin require-
ments. Figure  7.9 shows a 1-to-4 demultiplexer providing test data for four multiplexers for test data 
insertions. With this hardware, for controlling n lines of a CUT, 2log 2n+ pins are required.
As shown in Fig.  7.9, when NbarT  is 0, the multiplexers between logic parts (shaded areas) 
connect the left logic to the right logic, and the test hardware is transparent. In the test mode 
(NbarT  = 1), S1 and S0 select TestData  for driving the input of one of the left-hand side logic blocks.
Demultiplexing control points prevents simultaneous assignment of values to the control points 
that share pins. Therefore, simultaneous assignment of test data to bits of parallel buses is not 
221
Fig. 7.10  Simultaneous control of bits of buses
Fig. 7.11  Selection input 
counterpossible unless the above hardware is repeated for each bus bit that needs to be controlled. In this 
case, select inputs (e.g., S1, S0) and NbarT  can still be shared by controllability hardware for dif-
ferent bus bits. Figure  7.10 shows extension of Fig.  7.9 for parallel buses. This figure shows 
TestData0  through TestDatan  providing test data for four n-bit buses, A, B, C, and D. Select inputs 
S1 and S0 select which bus the test data will go to.
7.2.5   Reducing Select Inputs
Although multiplexing observation points of Fig.  7.6 and demultiplexing control points of Fig.  7.7 
significantly reduce test pin counts, for a large number of test points, we still face the problem of 
having many pins for multiplexer or demultiplexer select inputs. For the price of still longer test 
time, we can resolve this problem by adding a counter to the CUT. The counter clock and count 
inputs will be driven by external pins and the counter output selects point to be controlled or 
observed. For controlling or observing a line, the counter counts up, and when it reaches the number 
of the test point, other test signals will be issued. Figure  7.11 shows a counter used for selection 
inputs of a control point demultiplexer.7.2 Testability Insertion
222
Fig. 7.12  Shift-register for simultaneous control7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
To select a test point, the counter counts up to the location of the test point on the multiplexer or 
demultiplexer. At the test application time, TestData  drives the test point selected by the counter. 
The price we are paying for the reduction in the number of test pins is longer test time.
7.2.6   Simultaneous Control and Observation
DFT techniques discussed above were effective in reducing the number of test pins. On the other 
hand, none of these techniques allowed simultaneous activation of control or observe points, unless 
separate test pins were used and hardware structures were repeated (e.g., Fig.  7.10).
7.2.6.1   Simultaneous Control of Test Points
To allow simultaneous control for several test points and still keeping the number of pins low, a 
shift-register can be used to take test data serially, and apply all the bits in parallel in the test mode. 
Figure  7.12 shows a shift-register used for taking serial test data to be applied simultaneously to 
several logic blocks. Shift-register in this scheme replaces the demultiplexer of Fig.  7.9.
In the normal mode of operation, NbarT  is 0 and the multiplexers take the normal data from left 
logic blocks to the right ones. While the circuit is operating in this mode, test data can be shifted 
into the shift-register with the TestClock  without affecting the CUT’s normal operation. When test 
223
Fig. 7.13  Using a shift-register for simultaneous collection of line values7.2 Testability Insertion
data are completely shifted in, the CUT is put in the test mode (i.e., NbarT  = 1), which allows the 
test data from the shift-register to be used for input of logic blocks that are being tested (right-
hatched blocks in Fig.  7.12).
Because test data shifting takes several clock cycles, we overlap the normal operation of CUT 
with shifting test data into the shift-register. In this case, when data are being shifted, NbarT  must 
be 0, so that changing test data at the shift-register output does not interfere with the normal data. 
In general, serial shifting of test data is a time-consuming process, but, as we will see later in this 
chapter, it is the only way testing can be done. One way to improve this is by use of a faster clock 
for the test clock. Since shift-register is the only recipient of the test clock, circuit delays do not 
apply, and this clock can be much faster than the normal CUT’s clock.
7.2.6.2   Simultaneous Observation of Test Points
The concept of shift-registers mentioned above can also be used for simultaneously observing 
several lines in a CUT. Figure  7.13 shows a shift-register used for simultaneous collection of 
values from several test points and shifting them out serially. The device or ATE that is reading 
the output must perform serial to parallel conversion for having data from all test points at the 
same time.
In the test mode, when the response of CUT is ready and available at the shift-register input, the 
load input of the shift-register is enabled and the shift-register is clocked. This operation loads 
CUT’s line values, or lines to be observed, into the shift-register. Following this operation, the shift-
register load input is deasserted, which puts the shift-register in the serial mode. After application 
of n clocks in this mode, the line values being observed have been shifted out, and the shift-register 
is ready for the next parallel load of the test output data.
7.2.6.3   Isolated Serial Scan
The two concepts of using a shift-register for controlling test points and one for observing them can 
be combined and the same shift-register can be used for both purposes. This testability method is 
referred to as Isolated Serial Scan and is illustrated in Fig.  7.14.
For the normal mode of operation, the NbarT  input of CUT in Fig.  7.14 is 0. This causes no 
interference from the test logic except perhaps the delays from the multiplexers. While in this 
224
Fig. 7.14  Isolated Serial Scan7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
mode, the shift-register is put in the serial mode and new test data are shifted in, while collected 
data from last testing to be observed (from YO3, YO2, YO1, and YO0) are being shifted out. The 
input test data bits that are synchronized with the test clock are placed on the shift-register inputs. 
At the end of shifting, the CUT is put in the test mode by asserting NbarT . This applies the test 
data in the shift-registers (through the multiplexers) to the inputs of the part of CUT being tested. 
While this is happening, and the part of CUT is propagating this test data, the shift-register mode 
is changed to parallel loading. Enough time is given for test data to propagate and shown its affect 
on YO internal output lines. At this time, the shift-register is clocked just once to collect the output. 
This is followed by the serial mode that shifts in a new test data while shifting out the data that 
were just collected.
Figure  7.15 shows the Verilog code of the shift-register used in Fig.  7.14. Together, the shift-
register and the pseudo code of Fig.  7.16 manage to implement the operation discussed in the above 
paragraph.
The shift-register shown in Fig.  7.15 performs right shifting when its TestMode  input is 1 and 
does the parallel load operation when TestMode  is 2. TestMode  = 0 does nothing, and 3 resets the 
shift-register. The serial output of the shift-register is the same as bit 0 of its parallel output.
Figure  7.16 shows pseudo code for the equipment that connects to the pins of the CUT in 
Fig. 7.14, and using the DFT hardware that has been placed in the CUT, tests this circuit. 
Since this code plays the role of an ATE or a device that is testing the CUT, we refer to it as 
a virtual tester. The code shown works hand-in-hand with the shift-register and other test 
hardware in CUT.
For testing, NbarT  is set to 0 and input test data are shifted in while TestMode  = 1 (shift mode). 
At the end of shifting, TestMode  is set to 2 (parallel load), and output test data are captured. This 
while  loop repeats for as long as CUT is being tested. Each time a new test data are shifted in.
225
module shiftreg # (parameter size = 4) (input [size-1:0] parin, input 
TestClock, SerialTestDataIn,TestClock, input [1:0] TestMode,
output TestDataOut,output reg [size-1:0] parout);
always @ (posedge TestClock) begincase (TestMode) 
         0: parout <= parout;          1: parout <= {SerialTestDataIn, parout[size-1:1]};          2: parout <= parin;  
         3: parout <= 0;       endcase    end 
assign SerialTestDataOut = parout[0]; 
endmodule
Fig. 7.15  Isolated Serial Scan shift-register
Virtual Tester:Isolated Serial ScanWhile (testing) begin       = 0;
   For (i=1; i<= numbTestPoints; i++) begin          = 0; TestMode = 1
      Place serial test data on SerialTestDataIn;      Clock shift-register (TestClock)    = 1; TestMode =2;
Clock shift-register (TestClock)EndEnd Isolated Serial Scan/TN
/TN
/TNCollect TestDataOut;
End for
Fig. 7.16  Isolated Serial Scan virtual tester
Of all the hardware structures we discussed above, Isolated Serial Scan was the most complete 
and most complex to operate. This structure provides a background for standard scan architectures that are discussed next.
7.3  Full Scan DFT Technique
With the background provided in Sect. 7.2, we are now ready to discuss standard practices in DFT. 
The most common DFT technique is full scan that we discuss here [5]. This technique can be explained as one that is very similar in concept to the isolated scan of the previous section.
The isolated scan has an overhead of a shift-register that has to be inserted in the circuit under test. 
Inclusion of this register still does not solve the problem of test generation for sequential circuits, and we still have to treat the CUT as a sequential circuit with a few extra test points for adding controllability and observability. Full scan takes care of the hardware overhead and sequentiality of CUT by incorporating the required shift-register in the CUT’s state flip-flops. As we will see, this reduces the hardware overhead, and at the same time CUT becomes virtually a combinational circuit.7.3 Full Scan DFT Technique
226
Fig. 7.17  Scan insertion
module FBRegister #( parameter  size = 4) (input [size-1:0] ns, input 
always @ (posedge Clock) begin
if (Reset == 1'b0 ) begin
 if (NbarT == 1'b0) ps <= ns; 
else ps <= {STDI, ps[size-1:1] }; //shift mode  
end
else
ps <= 0;  
end
assign STDO = ps[0] ;
endmoduleSTDI, Clock, NbarT, Reset, output STDO,
output reg [size-1:0] ps) ;
Fig. 7.18  Testable Huffman model feedback register7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
7.3.1   Full Scan Insertion
For scan insertion, we start with the Huffman model of a sequential circuit as shown in Fig.  7.1. As 
discussed in Sect. 7.1, unfolding a sequential circuit (Fig.  7.2) and applying our testing to the 
combinational part of a circuit covers all logic and register interconnection faults. Full scan testing 
takes the Huffman model of Fig.  7.1, and by inserting a shift-register in its register structures, makes 
a virtual model of the unfolded circuit of Fig.  7.2.
7.3.1.1   Scan Register
Figure  7.17 shows scan insertion in the sequential circuit model of Fig.  7.1. The register part of the 
Huffman model now includes a shift mode that serially loads STDI  (Serial Test Data In) into the 
shift-register. In the normal mode, the register in Fig.  7.17 performs parallel loading.
Figure  7.18 shows Verilog code for the register of Fig.  7.17. The general operation of this register 
is similar to the one used for isolated scan, the Verilog code of which was shown in Fig.  7.15. Only 
the signals for control of serial and parallel modes are different.
227 7.3 Full Scan DFT Technique
The feedback shift-register in Fig. 7.18 works in normal mode by loading ns (next state) into ps 
(present state) when NbarT is 0. In test mode (NbarT = 1), the register becomes a shift-register with 
STDI serial input and STDO serial output.
Here, we have used a simple signaling for the control of the shift-register, in which NbarT  
is used for both normal mode (when 0) and shift mode (when 1). The exact signaling depends on the type of the flip-flops used and their data selection mechanisms. These issues will be dis-cussed in Sect. 7.3.2 .
7.3.1.2  Test Procedure
The test procedure for the testable Huffman model of Fig. 7.17 only involves testing the combina-
tional part, and the modified register is used as a mechanism for providing controllability of ps and 
observabilty of ns. The test architecture shown makes ps inputs the pseudo primary inputs and ns 
the pseudo primary outputs of the combinational part.
In the normal mode (NbarT = 0), the register loads ns into ps. In the test mode, NbarT becomes 
1 and test data that is to be applied to ps input of the combinational logic is shifted into the register. When all data bits are shifted, the first part of test data becomes ready at the circuit’s ps input, which 
is its PPI in test mode. At this time, the second part of the test data will be applied to the circuit’s primary inputs through external pins. The combinational circuit in Huffman model takes the two-part test data (PI and PPI) and propagates it to its outputs. The primary outputs of the circuit will be available on circuit pins immediately. This is collected and stored.
We then put the circuit in the normal mode of operation by setting NbarT to 0, and clocking the 
circuit only once. This causes the ns part of the output of the combinational circuit, which is its PPO, 
to get clocked into the register (in parallel). This PPO will now be shifted out, so that together with the circuit’s PO forms the complete output of the combinational part. While this shifting is happen-ing, we will also shift in a new test data into the shift-register for the next round of testing.
Timing and implementation of this testing process depends on the type of flip-flops and the cor -
responding selection logic structures that we use. The next section discusses this.
7.3.2  Flip-flop Structures
The Verilog code of Fig. 7.18 assumes a simple flip-flop structure and a multiplexer for selection 
of normal and shift modes. In addition to this structure, there are other structures that are more efficient in terms of timing and gate structures, which we will discuss here.7.3.2.1  Latches and Flip-flop
A static clocked latch is formed by a cross-coupled gate structure and gates for implementing a clocking mechanism. Figure 7.19 shows an SR-latch, its equivalent NAND structure, and a corre-
sponding symbol.
The cross-coupled structures provide the memory, and the other two gates handle the clocking. 
The symbol shown indicates dependency of S and R on the clock. Latches are transparent, meaning 
that when clock is active, S and R inputs directly affect the Q output. Unless complemented by other 
logic structures or other latches, transparent latches cannot be used in feedback paths in sequential circuits (e.g., Fig. 7.1).
A D-type latch and its corresponding symbol are shown in Fig. 7.20. This is also a transparent 
latch, and the D input drives the Q output while C is 1.
228
Fig. 7.19  Basic latch
Fig. 7.20  D-latch
C
CD QC
D
CCQ
Fig. 7.21  CMOS latches
D 1DQ
C11DQ
C1Q
1DQ
C1Q
D
C
Fig. 7.22  D-type flip-flop7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
In CMOS, dynamic or pseudo static latches can be built with fewer gates and transistors. 
Figure 7.21 shows dynamic and pseudo static latches. Test flip-flop architectures that we present 
here and in the following discussions, that are based on the static latches, also apply to dynamic and pseudo static latches with minor changes.
A flip-flop is built by using two latches with complementary clocks. Flip-flops are not trans-
parent and can be used in sequential circuit feedback paths. Instead of using the complement of the flip-flop clocks (as shown in Fig. 7.22), CMOS uses two nonoverlapping clock phases. Figure 7.22 
shows a D-type flip-flop and its symbol. The output of the flip-flop receives the input D after the 
229
Fig. 7.23  Multiplexed scan element7.3 Full Scan DFT Technique
falling edge of the clock. Although the symbol shown is for triggering on the clock edge, rather than after the clock edge, this symbol is often used for both flip-flop timings. The flip-flop structure shown here is often referred to as a master-slave flip-flop, where the left latch is referred to as master and the right one as slave.7.3.2.2  Multiplexed Test Data
The flip-flop of Fig. 7.23 provides a close correspondence with the Verilog description of 
Fig. 7.18. This flip-flop can be used as a scan element for the feedback register in Fig.  7.17. 
Figure 7.23 also shows gate-level details of the multiplexer with enable input that we use for 
flip-flop reset.
The flip-flop shown here has a multiplexer that uses NbarT to select between DataIn (when 0) 
and SerialIn (when 1). The multiplexer active low enable input provides a synchronous active high 
reset input. Figure 7.24 shows how three such flip-flops are used as a scan register for the testable 
model of Fig. 7.17. As before, the hatched areas in this diagram represent the combinational part of 
the circuit, here that of Huffman model.
In normal mode of operation, when NbarT is 0, ns[2:0] loads into ps[2:0] on the falling edge of 
Clock. In the test mode when NbarT is 1, serial data bits on STDI clock into the feedback register 
in three consecutive clocks, after which time they become available on ps[2:0]. The right-most bit 
is the serial output (STDO).
The Verilog code for the flip-flop structure of Fig. 7.23, including the multiplexer, is shown in 
Fig. 7.25. For modeling multi-bit feedback registers, we can use a Verilog code similar to the scan 
code in Fig. 7.18, or we can individually cascade flip-flops of Fig. 7.25 to form the right size 
register. For a behavioral description of a scan-inserted circuit, Verilog code of Fig. 7.18 may be 
more appropriate, while in a netlist where low-level detailed simulations may be needed, forming the feedback register by cascading individual flip-flops may be more useful.
The flip-flop discussed here is simple, but has the problem of multiplexer delay that adds to the 
logic delay. In fact, this structure increases the worst-case delay of the circuit for which scan is inserted. This reduces the speed of the normal system clock, and thus, a slower overall operation.7.3.2.3  Dual Clocking
As shown in Fig. 7.17, with each normal mode clock, the ps output of the feedback register, that is 
the input of the combinational circuit, must travel through the entire combinational part to affect this part’s ns output [6]. This involves a delay, only after which the register can be clocked again. 
230
Fig. 7.24  Scan register with multiplexed flip-flops
module MuxedFF ( input NbarT, Reset, DataIn, SerialIn, Clock, output reg  OutFF);
always @ (negedge Clock) begin
if (Reset) OutFF <= 1'b0;
else OutFF <= ~NbarT ? DataIn : SerialIn;
 end 
endmodule
Fig. 7.25  Multiplexed scan element Verilog code7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
This delay is the worst-case delay of the CUT, and its normal clock speed has to be slow enough to 
allow the complete propagation of ps into ns through the combinational part.
On the other hand, such a delay does not necessarily apply when running the circuit in the test 
mode. In this mode, we are only shifting serial data into the shift-register, and the only logic is that 
between flip-flop bits (see Fig.  7.24). Therefore, the test mode clocking can be faster than the 
normal data clocking. In large circuits with many serial bits to shift-in, using a faster clock for the 
test time gains a good saving in time.
231
1DQ
C1OutFFDataIn
DataClock
SerialIn
TestClock
Fig. 7.26  Scan flip-flop with dual clocking
module DualClockFF (input DataIn, DataClock, SerialIn, TestClock, output re g OutFF);
   wire Clock;
assign Clock = DataClock | TestClock;
always @ (negedge Clock) begin
if (DataClock) OutFF <= DataIn;else if (TestClock) OutFF <= SerialIn;
 end
endmodule
Fig. 7.27  Dual clock scan flip-flop Verilog code7.3 Full Scan DFT Technique
The flip-flop of Fig. 7.26 uses dual clocks: one for normal and one for the test mode. The OR 
gate at the flip-flop clock input causes it to be clocked with either DataClock or TestClock. The 
AND–OR logic at the flip-flop input selects DataIn when DataClock is 1 and selects SerialIn when 
TestClock is 1. While either clock is 1, the proper data appear at the flip-flop D-input, and after the clock becomes 0, the data at D are clocked into the flip-flop.
Figure 7.27 shows the Verilog code of the scan flip-flop with the dual clocking system. In this code, 
an internal clock signal (Clock) is made by ORing the two flip-flop clocks. In the always statement, 
that is sensitive to this clock, the data and test clocks are used for conditioning what gets clocked into the flip-flop. Because we have used this procedure and not the exact gate-level equivalent of circuit of Fig. 7.27, our Verilog model does not represent the timing details of the actual circuit.
The problem with this clocking scheme is the hazard that may occur in the logic at the flip-flop 
D-input. In addition, the problem of introducing the logic gates at the inputs of the circuit flip-flops and increasing the worst-case delay of the circuit still remains.7.3.2.4  Two-port Flip-flops
To reduce the flip-flop D-input logic delay, the clocking scheme of Fig. 7.28 can be used. The figure 
shows gate-level details of the flip-flop complementary clock latches. The logic of the right-hand side latch (slave) remains the same as that of Fig. 7.19, and the other latch (master), combines its 
clocking logic with its required selection logic. To make explanation of the logical operation of the flip-flop in Fig. 7.28 easier, we use the AND–NOR logic of Fig. 7.19 instead of its NAND equiva-
lent shown in the same figure.
In a timing diagram, Fig. 7.29 shows the operation of the two-port flip-flop of Fig. 7.28. For 
loading DataIn into the flip-flop, ClockA and ClockB are asserted alternatively, while ClockC 
remains at 0. For loading SerialIn, ClockC and ClockB are applied in alternative orders, and in this 
case ClockA is inactive.
232
Fig. 7.29  Two-port flip-flop timing
Fig. 7.28  Two-port three-clock flip-flop7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
When ClockA  is asserted, while ClockB  is 0, data on DataIn  is latched into the master latch and 
appears on M. When ClockB  is asserted, data on M is latched into the flip-flop output. The situation 
is similar, when ClockA  is inactive and ClockB  toggles.
Figure  7.30 shows a symbol for the structure of Fig.  7.28 that is based on two latches. The master 
latch is a two-port latch and the slave is a standard D-latch such as that of Fig.  7.20.
Figure  7.31 shows the register part of Fig.  7.17 implemented with the flip-flop of Fig.  7.30. 
Although shift and normal mode signals are different than the multiplexed flip-flop design of 
Fig. 7.24, the overall operation remains the same. For normal operation, ClockA  and ClockB  are 
233
Fig. 7.30  Two-port flip-flop 
symbol
Fig. 7.31  LSSD Design7.3 Full Scan DFT Technique
used, and in test mode, ClockC  and ClockB  become complementary clocks. The design shown here 
is called LSSD (Level Sensitive Scan Design) and was first used by IBM in 1977. Scan path for 
shifting serial test data into feedback registers is highlighted in this figure.
Figure  7.32 shows Verilog code of the flip-flop discussed above. Signal names apply to those 
shown in Fig.  7.30. This code is based on description of two latches. The master latch uses two 
clocks, and slave uses ClockB . The output is changed when ClockB  becomes 1.
234
module DualPortFF (input DataIn, SerialIn, ClockA, ClockB, ClockC, output reg OutFF);
reg M;always @ (DataIn, SerialIn, ClockA, ClockC) begin
if (ClockA) M <= DataIn;else if (ClockC) M <= SerialIn;
end
 always @ (M, ClockB)
 if (ClockB) OutFF <= M;
endmodule
Fig. 7.32  Dual port flip-flop Verilog code7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
The two-port 3-clock flip-flop of Fig. 7.28 or Fig. 7.30 avoids the multiplexer delay of the 
previously mentioned flip-flops. The clocking mechanism allows different clock speeds for normal and test modes. This structure has the overhead of having to handle three clock signals.
7.3.3  Full Scan Design and Test
So far in Sect. 7.3, we have talked about scan hardware, scan operation, and testing a circuit that 
has become testable with this full scan DFT technique. This section shows the complete flow of DFT from a problem specification to generating test and developing a test program.
We show how test methods of the previous chapters fit together with the full scan DFT tech-
niques. Some of the topics discussed earlier in this section such as the full scan test procedure will be elaborated on, and the timing details will be explained in Verilog procedures.
The example that is used is the Residue-5 circuit that was first presented in Chap. 2. This is a 
sequential circuit, for the testing of which DFT techniques are essential. Figure 7.33 shows the 
behavioral description of this design. In the discussion that follows, this design will be taken through the following steps:
Design and validation and design•	
Synthesis and netlist generation•	
Unfolding•	
Combinational test generation•	
Scan insertion•	
Developing a virtual tester•	
Test set verification•	7.3.3.1  Design and Design Validation
As mentioned, our example design is the Residue-5 circuit discussed in this and several other chapters in this book. This hardware is described in Verilog (Fig. 7.33). The coding style is 
according to the Huffman model of Fig. 7.1. The register part specifies an asynchronous resetting 
mechanism, which means that the reset signal does not participate in the combinational part of the circuit. Keeping reset and other flip-flop control signals away from the combinational part is good for postmanufacturing testing.
The design described in an HDL must be validated. For this purpose, a testbench for functional testing 
of the design must be developed. This topic has been covered in Chap. 2 and will not be repeated here.
Although we have not taken advantage of this opportunity, the combined design and test environ-
ment that we are presenting here allows a testbench for design validation to be used as a template 
235
module residue5(input clk, reset, input[1:0] in, output[2:0] out); 
reg[2:0] nState, pState; 
parameter  zero = 3'b000, one = 3'b001, two = 3'b010, three = 3'b011,
four = 3'b100;  
always@(posedge clk, posedge reset) 
if(reset) pState = zero; 
else pState = nState;
always@(pState, in) begin
case(pState)
zero:
case(in)
2'b00:  nState = zero; 2'b01:  nState = one;  2'b10:  nState = two;     
2'b11:  nState = three;  
endcase 
case(in)
2'b00:  nState = one; 2'b01:  nState = two;2'b10:  nState = three;     
2'b11:  nState = four; 
endcase
. . . 
four:
case(in)
2'b00:  nState = four; 2'b01:  nState = zero;  2'b10:  nState = one;     
2'b11:  nState = two; 
endcaseendcase
end//always
assign out = pState;  
endmoduleone:
Fig. 7.33  residue5 partial Verilog code7.3 Full Scan DFT Technique
for a testbench or a test program for postmanufacturing testing. Starting with a testbench for design validation, and gradually improving it for postsynthesis and eventually for manufacturing test is referred to as “testbench migration”. In testbench migration, a testbench begins with just functional test data for verifying the presynthesis design of a circuit and gradually changes to include test data generated by ATPG programs.7.3.3.2  Synthesis and Netlist Generation
The next step after design validation is synthesis. Using an FPGA-based synthesis program and a netlist converter, we have successfully synthesized the Verilog code of Fig. 7.33. The result is shown 
236
module residue5_net(clk, reset, in, out); 
input clk; input reset; input [1:0]in; output [2:0]out; 
wirewire_1, wire_2, 
. . . . . . . . . 
. . . 
. . . in_0_0, in_0_1, out_0_0,  
out_0_1,  
pin #(2) pin_0 ({in[0], in[1]}, {in_0, in_1}); pout #(3) pout_0 ({out_0_7, out_1_7, out_2_5}, {out[0], out[1],
 
 out[2]}); 
fanout_n #(8, 0, 0) FANOUT_3 (in_0, {in_0_0, in_0_1, in_0_2, in_0_3,
 in_0_4, in_0_5, in_0_6, in_0_7}); 
fanout_n #(7, 0, 0) FANOUT_4 (in_1, {in_1_0, in_1_1, in_1_2, in_1_3,
 in_1_4, in_1_5, in_1_6});  
notg #(0, 0) NOT_1 (WIRE_3, in_1_0);  
notg #(0, 0) NOT_2 (WIRE_4, out_2_0); and_n #(3, 0, 0) AND_14 (wire_25, {wire_6_5, wire_3_4, out_2_4}); or_n #(4, 0, 0) OR_2 (wire_21, {wire_25, wire_24, wire_23, wire_22}); dff INS_1 (out_0, wire_1, clk, reset, 1'b0, 1'b1, NbarT, Si, 1'b0) ;
dff INS_2 (out_1,wire_13, clk, reset, 1'b0, 1'b1, NbarT, Si, 1'b0) ;
dff INS_3 (out_2,wire_21, clk, reset, 1'b0, 1'b1, NbarT, Si, 1'b0) ;
endmodul e
Fig. 7.34  Postsynthesis residue5 netlist7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
in Fig. 7.34. This netlist uses primitives that are compatible with our utility PLI functions for fault 
collapsing, fault simulation, and test generation. This netlist, the components of which are shown in Appendix B, is automatically generated from the circuit’s behavioral description discussed in Appendix F.
As expected, the netlist includes a logical block consisting of basic gates with a feedback through 
three flip-flops.
This is compatible with the Huffman model of Fig. 7.1. An example for logic feedback through 
the flip-flops can be seen by tracing wire wire_13 that goes to the D input of INS_2 flip-flop.
Before going to the next step of design, it is necessary to perform postsynthesis simulation of 
this netlist and make sure it is a correct translation of the behavioral model of Fig. 7.33.
7.3.3.3  Unfolding
Once we have verified that our synthesis has been performed correctly, we start the test generation process. The circuit in Fig. 7.34 is a sequential circuit, and test generation methods and programs 
for sequential circuits are not very efficient in terms of fault coverage. For this reason, we convert our CUT to a combinational circuit by unfolding it, as presented in Fig. 7.2.
Figure 7.35 shows the residue5 netlist after being unfolded. As discussed, unfolding means 
removing flip-flops and making their outputs and inputs pseudo primary inputs and pseudo primary 
237
module res5_Unfold (/*PI,PPI*/{in,out_2, out_1, out_0}, 
                    /*PO,PPO*/{out,HM_1, HM_13, HM_21}); input [1:0]in;input out_0, out_1, out_2; //ppIn output [2:0]out; output HM_1, HM_13, HM_21; //ppOut wirewire_2,. . . in_0_0,in_0_1,. . . out_0_0,out_0_1,. . . wire_3_2,wire_3_3,. . . PPI0,PPI1,PPI2,PPO1,PPO13,PPO21;pin #(2) pin_0 ({in[0], in[1]}, {in_0, in_1}); pin #(3) pin_1 ({out_0, out_1, out_2}, {PPI0, PPI1, PPI2});//Pseudo PI pout #(3) pout_0 ({out_0_7, out_1_7, out_2_5}, {out[0], out[1], 
out[2]});
pout #(3) pout_1 ({PPO1, PPO13, PPO21}, {wire_1, wire_13, wire_21}); fanout_n #(8, 0, 0) FANOUT_3 (in_0, {in_0_0, in_0_1, in_0_2, in_0_3,                              in_0_4, in_0_5, in_0_6, in_0_7}); . . . notg #(0, 0) NOT_1 (wire_3, in_1_0);  
notg #(0, 0) NOT_2 (wire_4, out_2_0); . . . and_n #(3, 0, 0) AND_14 (wire_25, {wire_6_5, wire_3_4, out_2_4}); or_n #(4, 0, 0) OR_2 (PPO21, {wire_25, wire_24, wire_23, wire_22}); //dff INS_1 (out_0, wire_1, clk, reset, 1'b0, 1'b1, NbarT, Si,1'b0);  
//dff INS_2 (out_1, wire_13, clk, reset, 1'b0, 1'b1, NbarT, Si,1'b0); //dff INS_3 (out_2, wire_21, clk, reset, 1'b0, 1'b1, NbarT, Si,1'b0);  
endmodule
Fig. 7.35  Unfolded residu5 netlist7.3 Full Scan DFT Technique
outputs. Figure 7.35 shows that out_0, out_1, and out_2 that used to be flip-flop outputs are now 
mapped to PPI0, PPI1, and PPI2 that are circuit’s pseudo primary input. Similarly, former flip-flop 
inputs wire_1, wire_13, and wire_21 are now mapped to PPO1, PPO13, and PPO21 pseudo pri-
mary outputs. The new signal mentioned above also appears on circuit port list as inputs and outputs.7.3.3.4  Combinational TPG
The netlist in Fig. 7.35 represents a combinational circuit and uses our standard primitives. Chapter 
5 showed several random TG methods and Verilog testbenches for implementing them. We have 
238 7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
used the AECpt algorithm of Sect. 5.3.2.2 for test generation for this module. The Verilog testbench for this purpose is similar to the code shown in Fig. 5.27 and is not repeated here. The testbench we used generates the collapsed fault list before test generation.
The results from the test generation Verilog program are as follows.
Number of faults: 104•	
Number of test vectors: 26•	
Bits per test vector: 5 (2 PI, 3 PPI)•	
Fault coverage: 100%•	
Recall from Chap. 5 that a testbench was developed for sequential test generation of the Residue-5 circuit (Fig. 5.30). That testbench generated 7 test vectors applied over 45 clock cycles (effectively, 45 tests), and resulted in only 82.4% fault coverage. The unfolding of this circuit enabled us to achieve a 100% coverage.7.3.3.5  Scan Insertion
To facilitate application of tests generated by the procedure discussed above to the actual CUT, a scan for accessing state flip-flop inputs and outputs is inserted in the CUT. With the insertion of this scan, the block diagram of the netlist of residue5 that was originally modeled as in Fig. 7.1 becomes 
as that shown in Fig. 7.36. The netlist corresponding to this figure will be shown next.
For this purpose, the postsynthesis netlist of Fig. 7.34 is modified to include the necessary scan 
flip-flops and signals. The synthesis tool that generated the original netlist used flip-flop types that already included serial shift facilities that were not used in this netlist. Figure 7.37 shows this flip-
flop with NbarT, serial input (Si), and standard control signals. This description corresponds to the 
flip-flop notation used in Fig. 7.36 for the feedback flip-flop. Note: The block diagram notation for 
the flip-flops in Fig. 7.36 shows two flip-flop D inputs marked by 1,2D and 1,3D. The notation specifies that both D inputs are controlled by the clock signal number 1. The upper input requires mode 2 to be active and the lower input needs mode 3. Modes 2 and 3 are determined by a 1 or a 0 on the lower-left input of the flip-flop. We will use this notation in flip-flops of this chapter.
The netlist shown in Fig. 7.38 takes advantage of shift features of the flip-flop of Fig. 7.37. This 
netlist has additional scan control inputs NbarT and Si.
The NbarT input connects to NbarT inputs (shift control) of the state flip-flops (INS_1, INS_2, 
and INS_3, shown in the last part of code of Fig. 7.38). The Si input connects to flip-flop 0 (INS_1), 
the output of which goes to the input of the next, eventually forming a chain of three scan flip-flops. Signal out_2 that is the output of the last flip-flop drives the So serial output signal.
7.3.3.6  Developing a Virtual Tester
Figure 7.38 represents a testable circuit. This netlist implements the original desired functionality 
of the design, as well as our inserted test hardware. Once manufactured, it has to be tested with a test plan that depends on the test architecture that we have developed, i.e., full scan. The test program running on an ATE implements this test plan.
In this section, we use a Verilog testbench to imitate an ATE. The test program running on the 
ATE that is written in C/C++ or other high-level software languages will be written here in Verilog procedural code. As previously discussed, we refer to this Verilog testbench as a virtual tester.
The block diagram of the virtual tester testing the full scan version of the Residue-5 circuit is 
shown in Fig. 7.39. The main task of the virtual tester is to read predetermined test data from an 
external file, apply it to the CUT, get the output of the CUT, and compare the response with the 
239
module dff #(parameter  tphl = 0, tplh = 0) (Q, D, C, CLR, PRE, CE, 
 NbarT, Si, global_reset);
input D, C, CLR, PRE, CE, NbarT, Si, global_reset;
output reg  Q;
reg val;
always @(posedge C or posedg e PRE or posedge  CLR) begin
if(CLR || global_reset )
         val = 1'b0;  
      else if(PRE)
         val = 1'b1;  
      else if(NbarT)
val = Si;  
 else if(CE)
val = D;
end
always@(posedge val) #tplh Q =  val;
always@(negedge val) #tphl Q =  val;
endmodule
Fig. 7.37  Flip-flop with scan facilitiesFig. 7.36  residue5  with scan chain
7.3 Full Scan DFT Technique
240
module res5_ScanInserted(clk, reset, in, out, NbarT, Si, So) ;
input clk; 
input reset; 
input [1:0]in;  
input NbarT, Si; 
output So; 
output [2:0]out;
wire
wire_1,
wire_2,
. . . 
in_0_0,
in_0_1,
. . . 
out_0_0,
out_0_1,
. . . 
pin #(2) pin_0 ({in[0], in[1]}, {in_0, in_1});  
pout #(3) pout_0 ({out_0_7, out_1_7, out_2_5}, {out[0], out[1],  
out[2]});
fanout_n #(8, 0, 0) FANOUT_3 (in_0, {in_0_0, in_0_1, in_0_2, in_0_3 ,
in_0_4, in_0_5, in_0_6, in_0_7});  
. . . 
notg #(0, 0) NOT_1 (wire_3, in_1_0); 
notg #(0, 0) NOT_2 (wire_4, out_2_0);  
xor_n #(2, 0, 0) XOR_2 (wire_13, {out_1_3, wire_14}); 
. . . 
and_n #(3, 0, 0) AND_14 (wire_25, {wire_6_5, wire_3_4, out_2_4});  
. . . 
and_n #(3, 0, 0) AND_14 (wire_25, {wire_6_5, wire_3_4, out_2_4});  
or_n #(4, 0, 0) OR_2 (wire_21, {wire_25, wire_24, wire_23, wire_22});  
dff INS_1 (out_0, wire_1, clk, reset, 1'b0, 1'b1, NbarT, Si, 1'b0);  
dff INS_2 (out_1, wire_13, clk, reset, 1'b0, 1'b1, NbarT, out_0, 1'b0);  
dff INS_3 (out_2, wire_21, clk, reset, 1'b0, 1'b1, NbarT, out_1, 1'b0);  
assign So = out_2;  
endmodule
Fig. 7.38  Scan-inserted circuit under test
Fig. 7.39  Virtual tester for residue5
7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
241
module  Tester; 
parameter nff = 3; parameter in_size = 2;  parameter out_size = 3;  parameter st_size = 3;  parameter stIndex = 8; /*in_size + out_size + in_size*/parameter line_size = st_size * 2 + in_size + out_size;reg [numOfPIs+ numOfPOs + 2 * numOfDffs - 1 : 0] line;. . .
res5_ScanInserted FUT(clk, reset, PI, PO, NbarT, si, so); 
always #10 clk = ~clk;initial begin 
$FaultCollapsing(Tester.FUT, "Res5.flt"); 
 while( !$feof(faultFile)) begin
         . . . 
while((!$feof(testFile))&&(!detected)) begin
          . . . 
 end//test
         . . . 
end//fault
$fclose(faultFile); $display("number of faults = %f",numOfFaults  ); $display("number of detected faults = %f", numOfDetected ); $display("Coverage = %f", numOfDetected * 100.0  /  numOfFaults); 
$stop;
end//initial
endmodule
Fig. 7.40  Virtual tester for full scan Residue-57.3 Full Scan DFT Technique
expected response from the external file. Since we are developing a virtual tester, and our CUT is really not a faulty circuit, our virtual tester also has the responsibility of injecting fictitious faults in the circuit to see if the test set that is provided detects them. We take this process one step further, and inject all circuit faults obtained by fault collapsing in the postsynthesis netlist of Fig. 7.34.
As shown in Fig. 7.39, the parallel data read from the external test file have two parts: one is 
directly applied to in[1:0] input of CUT and the other is serialized and applied through Si. The 
timing of these data is such that when all serial bits have been shifted in the scan chain, the parallel data must be applied to in[1:0].
As shown, the output also has two parts. The first part becomes available on out[2:0] immedi-
ately after all inputs (i.e., parallel and serial) have been applied. Then, the state outputs (pseudo outputs) become available after the flip-flops have been clocked and then shifted out through So.
The Verilog testbench in Fig. 7.40 implements the test environment shown in the block diagram 
of Fig. 7.39. This testbench reads external data files and through control of clocking of the flip-flops 
and timing of inputs and outputs applies this test data to the inputs of our CUT, and collects the corresponding outputs. It then compares output data with expected outputs available in the test data file. The paragraphs that follow discuss the manner in which clock data and test inputs of the scan-inserted Residue-5 are controlled that leads to testing this circuit with input/output data that are obtained from the unfolded combinational model of Residue-5.
242
module  Tester; 
. . .
. . .initial begin
 while( !$feof(faultFile)) begin
testFile   = $feof ("Res5.tst","r"); 
status = $fscanf (faultFile,"%s s@%b\n",wireName, stuckAtVal );
$InjectFault ( wireName, stuckAtVal ); 
global_reset = 1'b1; reset = 1'b1; #1;global_reset = 1'b0; reset = 1'b0; PI = 0;cur_expected_st = 0; detected = 1'b0; 
 while((!$feof(testFile))&&(!detected) ) begin
. . . 
 end//test
if(detected == 0) $display ("NOT DETECTED = %s s@%b", wireName,
         stuckAtVal );         $RemoveFault(wireName); 
         numOfFaults = numOfFaults + 1;         $fclose(testFile); 
  end//fault
      . . . 
 end//initial
endmodule
Fig. 7.41  Fault injection in Residue-57 Design for Test by Means of Scan
The testbench in Fig. 7.40 is a generic tester module, at the top of which parameters specifying the 
number of circuit inputs, outputs, and flip-flops are specified. Other necessary declarations follow the parameter specifications. Variable line is declared such that a line from test data file can be read into 
this variable. Instantiation of the scan-inserted CUT and generation of a periodic clock are also shown here.
The procedural code of the tester starts with the initial statement and, immediately following this 
statement, performs fault collapsing and opens the fault file for subsequent reading. We then have two while loops for fault injection and test data application. Display tasks reporting test results 
appear at the end of the initial block.
Figure 7.41 shows the fault injection (the outer while loop). In an actual test program for testing 
a manufactured part, this loop does not exist. In postmanufacturing test, we are testing for existing faults and not intentionally injecting faults. After every fault injection, the loop in Fig. 7.41 resets 
the CUT and prepares it for testing. Testing is done in the inner while loop shown here.
Figure 7.42 shows the details of the inner loop of the procedural code of Fig. 7.40. This while 
loop is responsible for reading a line of test data from testFile, applying the input part of it to the 
circuit, and checking circuit’s response with the output part of the line of test data.
A line read from testFile has an input part and an output part. Arrangement of inputs and outputs 
in line is shown in Fig. 7.43. The input part has a part that applies directly to the circuit’s primary 
243
module Tester;
. . .
. . .
. . .initial begin 
while( !$feof(faultFile)) begin
while((!$feof(testFile))&&(!detected)) begin
status = $fscanf(testFile,"%b\n",line); 
 pre_expected_st = cur_expected_st; 
expected_PO = line[out_size - 1:0]; 
cur_expected_st = line[st_size + out_size -1 :out_size]; 
PI = line[st_size+out_size+in_size-1:st_size+out_size];
@(posedge clk);
            NbarT = 1'b1; 
            index = stIndex; 
 repeat(nff)begin
               si = line[index];
               saved_st[index - stIndex] = so; 
               @( posedge clk); 
               index = index + 1;
            end 
            SampledPO = PO;  
            NbarT = 1'b0; 
            #5; 
 if({pre_expected_st, expected_PO} != {saved_st, SampledPO})
begin
               numOfDetected = numOfDetected + 1; 
               detected = 1;  
end
end
         . . .
end
      . . . 
end//initial
endmodule
Fault
Test
Fig. 7.42  Test application and response collection
Fig. 7.43  Arrangement of stimulus and response in line
7.3 Full Scan DFT Technique
244 7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
inputs and another part that must be shifted into scan flip-flops (Pseudo PI). Similarly, the output part itself has two parts: one part becomes available immediately when proper inputs (PI) and scan data are shifted into the flip-flops (PO) and a second part that will be shifted out when serial data belonging to the next test vector are being shifted in (Pseudo PO). Understanding this timing is crucial in collecting the right outputs and comparing relevant responses.
The Test loop in Fig. 7.42 reads stimuli and response data, applies it to the CUT, compares the outputs, 
and reports if a test detects the injected fault. Data that contain stimuli and response have the format shown in Fig. 7.43. Variable names storing various parts of line data are indicated in this figure.
As shown in Fig. 7.42, before cur_expected_st (current expected state) is overwritten with new 
data from line, it is saved in pre_expected_st (previous expected state). The pre_expected_st is saved 
because the actual state flip-flop contents of the previous test will not become available until current serial data are shifted into the state flip-flops, and that shifted-out data is what needs to be compared with pre_expected_st.
The PI part of the current data read from line is immediately applied to the scan-inserted 
Residue-5. (See PI in port connections of res5_ScanInserted in Fig. 7.40.)
The repeat loop in Fig. 7.42 takes the pseudo PI part of line and shifts it into the circuit’s state 
flip-flops. Meanwhile, flip-flop outputs are serially shifted out and saved in saved_st. During the 
shift operation, the circuit is in test mode (NbarT = 1), and each shift is accompanied with the posi-
tive edge of clock. Shifting repeats nff (number of flip-flops) times.
After shifting completes, with PI at the circuit’s primary inputs, and pseudo PI part of line in the 
state flip-flops, the circuit produces the output that corresponds to the input data of line that was just 
read. This PO is saved in SampledPO.
In the last part of the loop in Fig. 7.42, the collected pseudo output and the primary output of 
the circuit are concatenated and compared with the expected state and the expected primary output.7.3.3.7  Test Set Verification
The test set for Residue-5 circuit was developed using its unfolded model with no registers, and using combinational test generation methods. We obtained a 100% coverage from this test set. The above procedure, in which this same test set is applied to the actual sequential model of Residue-5, verifies the test set obtained from the combinational model.
7.4  Scan Architectures
This chapter started with ad hoc methods for making designs testable, and gradual improvement of such methods led to the DFT technique that we referred to as full scan. Actually, full scan is part of a larger category of DFT techniques that are generally referred to as scan architectures [5 ]. 
This section presents alternatives to a full scan design. We start with repeating the full scan, to set the ground for comparing it with other methods.
As we have said in many instances before in this book, any sequential digital system can be 
modeled by a combinational circuit with a feedback through a vector of clock-controlled flip-flops. The functional relation between the flip-flops may form one or several clusters of flip-flops that become our feedback registers. In this model, no line is drawn between control and data registers, i.e., feedback registers consist of data and control flip-flops. We use the general diagram of Fig. 7.44 
for describing various scan architectures.
245
Fig. 7.44  Huffman model with multiple vector inputs, outputs, and states
7.4 Scan Architectures
7.4.1   Full Scan Design
In the full scan DFT techniques, feedback registers are given the additional capability of acting as 
shift-registers in the test mode. Full scan chains all the registers together and provides a serial-in 
and a serial-out ports. This method enables serial access for controlling all flip-flop outputs (cir -
cuit’s present state) and observing all flip-flop inputs (circuit’s next state). Full scan refers to the 
fact that all circuit flip-flops are included in the scan chain. Figure  7.45 shows addition of full scan 
to the model of Fig.  7.44. The problem with full scan is the long chain of flip-flops that test data 
have to be shifted into that reflects on the test time [ 7].
7.4.2   Shadow Register DFT
An alternative design to full scan design is the use of shadow registers. This technique duplicates 
the feedback registers. It uses one set for normal operation of the circuit and another set for test 
purposes. This method reduces the test time by overlapping the time of test data preparation and 
response collection with the normal operation of the circuit [ 6].
7.4.2.1   Shadow Architecture
Figure  7.46 shows the addition of a shadow register to the model of Fig.  7.44. The new set of 
registers receives next-state outputs from the combinational part of the circuit and produces outputs 
that are multiplexed on the present state inputs of the combinational part.
246
Fig. 7.45  Full scan DFT technique
7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
7.4.2.2   Shadow Test Procedure
In the normal mode ( NbarT  = 0), the circuit has its normal inputs, and normal feedback 
registers provide data for the present state of the circuit. While in this mode, the shadow reg -
isters are put in their serial shift mode. Therefore, simultaneous with the normal operation of 
the circuit, the test data on Si are shifted into the shadow registers with Tclk test clock. When 
all test data have been shifted in, NbarT  is asserted, which puts the circuit in the test mode and 
disables shifting serial data into the shadow register. In this mode, the normal circuit clock ( clk) 
is disabled and (see the AND gate on clock) test states ( TS1 and TS2) will drive the circuit’s 
state inputs ( ps1 and ps2).
In the test mode, the ps1 and ps2 inputs of the combinational part are driven by test data. We will 
also drive PI1 and PI2 with their corresponding test data. This will set  all inputs of the combi -
national part of the CUT to previously prepared test data. With test inputs provided to all combina -
tional block inputs, the response becomes available on PO1, PO2, ns1, and ns2. The primary 
output part of the response ( PO1  and PO2) can be read at this time, but ns1 and ns2 must be 
clocked into the shadow register and shifted out in order to be observed. Clocking the circuit while 
NbarT  is 1 loads ns1 and ns2 into the shadow registers (see 2, 3 control inputs of the shadow 
registers, mode 2 allows serial shift , and mode 3 takes the normal flip-flop input). 
247
Fig. 7.46  Shadow register
7.4 Scan Architectures
248 7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
To collect the ns1 and ns2 part of the test response, the circuit is put in the normal mode by 
setting NbarT to 0. This puts the shadow registers in the shift mode. In this mode, clk is enabled and 
the circuit goes back to normal mode of operation, new test data inputs start being shifted from Si, 
and the part of test response on ns1 and ns2 start being shifted out through So.
7.4.2.3  Shadow Versus Full Scan
The biggest advantage of shadow registers is the capability of online testing, and its disadvantage is doubling the number of feedback flip-flops.
Timing wise, having a separate clock for test (Tclk) enables faster shifting of test data into the 
shadow registers. On the other hand, the multiplexers in the feedback path cause a delay in this path which is considered another disadvantage of this technique. This delay slows down the normal clock speed and affects system performance.
For test generation, combinational methods can be used with the unfolded version of the CUT. 
This is because insertion of shadow registers makes all combinational part inputs and outputs accessible.
7.4.3  Partial Scan Methods
The problem of test time in full scan designs can be alleviated by scan chains that include only part of the feedback registers. As compared with full scan, selecting some of the feedback registers is referred to as partial scan. The method of selecting registers that are put in the scan varies from one partial scan method to another, but in general, selection must be done such that combinational test generation methods can still be used for test data generation [8].
In an RT-level design with a controller and a datapath, partial scan methods generally apply to 
the datapath. In a datapath, paths through buses and logic leading to registers are searched, looking for registers whose exclusion from a scan chain (inclusion in the CUT test model) would still allow combinational test generation methods to be used for test generation. Below we will discuss one such scenario.7.4.3.1  A Partial Scan Architecture
Figure 7.47 repeats the circuit model of Fig. 7.44. For presenting our example partial scan method, 
we assume the combinational part of the circuit we are to add DFT hardware consists of two com-binational blocks as shown in the hatched boxes of Fig. 7.47. The circuit primary inputs split and 
go to both blocks, A and B, and the outputs of the blocks are merged to form the circuit’s primary 
outputs. One feedback register is driven by block A and the other by block B. The output of the latter 
register goes to input of block B and that of the former goes to block A. As shown in the diagram, 
the feedbacks are crossed, i.e., A through register to B and B through register to A. It is this property 
that makes partial scan possible in this circuit.
In order to test all the logic in the circuit of Fig. 7.47, it is only necessary to put feedback register 
R2 in a scan path. This scan is shown by a heavy dotted line in Fig. 7.47. Applicability of this 
method to datapath of an RT-level design becomes more clear by turning the diagram of Fig. 7.47 
into that of Fig. 7.48.
249
Fig. 7.47  Partial scan, starting with Huffman model
Fig. 7.48  Partial scan datapath
7.4 Scan Architectures
Combinational blocks A and B can be a mixture of logic units and buses in a datapath. 
Although it may be difficult to map an entire datapath into an architecture like that of Fig.  7.48, 
it is not hard to find sections of a large datapath that fit this model. In addition, with minor modi -
fications to a datapath, this and other sub-architectures that qualify for various partial scan 
designs can be formed.
In the above discussion, we selected a register to be removed from full scan and found that this 
removal would still qualify the resulting circuit model for combinational test generation. In a 
large RT-level design, there may be many such choices, some of which may conflict with one 
250
Fig. 7.49  Partial scan  
combinational model
Fig. 7.50  Test vector arrangement
7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
another. Selection of a set of registers to remove from a full scan design is an np-complete problem 
that has been discussed and dealt with in the literature [10].
7.4.3.2   Partial Scan Test Procedure
In general, testing a design with partial scan is more involved than one with full scan. A partial 
scan design requires a sequence of shiftings and register parallel loading to get test data to and out 
of all logic parts. In spite of this more complex handling of test data, a good partial scan design 
still uses combinational test generation methods. Testing the design of Fig.  7.47 or Fig.  7.48 is 
discussed here.
Test generation for the combinational part of circuit of Fig.  7.47 is done by a circuit model 
that removes R1, and then unfolds the circuit by treating input and output of R2 as pseudo pri -
mary output and pseudo primary input, respectively. This combinational model is shown in 
Fig. 7.49.
As shown, R1 is removed and its ns1 input is connected to ps1 output. Register R2 unfolds and 
its input becomes PPO1  and its output becomes PPI1  (pseudo output and input). Since this model 
does not have any feedback loops, it is treated as a combinational circuit, and combinational test 
generation methods are used for generating test for it. Test vectors generated for this circuit have 
the form shown in Fig.  7.50.  Values for PI1, PI2, and PPI1  inputs are followed by output values 
PO1, PO2, and PPO1 .
What follows discusses application of tests (format of Fig.  7.50) to our partial scan design 
(Fig.  7.47 or Fig.  7.48), and collection of outputs. Although Figs.  7.47 and 7.48 are equivalent, the 
discussion below is easier to follow when considering Fig.  7.48.
251 7.4 Scan Architectures
In the normal mode of operation, NbarT is 0 and circuit is performing its normal operation. With 
each clock, ps1 receives ns1 (register R1), and ps2 receives ns2 (register R2). In the test mode, R1 
is disabled and R2 is put in the shift mode. When all data bits belonging to PPI1 segment of a test 
vector have been shifted into R2 (which means that ps2 in Fig. 7.48 has proper test data), the PI1 
segment is applied to the PI1 input of the circuit. At this time, PO1 test response is collected and 
ns2 is generated as well.
We then disable R2 and enable R1 parallel loading. This is happening while combinational block 
A (Fig. 7.48) has proper PI1 and ps2 test inputs. Clocking the circuit at this time will load ns1 in 
R1, and thus applies it to block B via ps1.
The other part of input of block B is PI2 that is read from the test vector and applied to this input. 
Now, block B has all its test data applied to its inputs. The PO2 output from block B is read and 
collected.
Of the three parts of the test vector response, we have two parts ready (PO1 and PO2). We now 
put the circuit back in the test mode, and while new test data shift in R2, test response of B in R2’s 
ns2 input will serially be collected. After the shifting, the three parts of the output (PO1, PO2, and 
PPO1) are ready to be compared with the expected response.
The procedure discussed above is summarized as shown below. This procedure is for the test 
mode and begins by setting NbarT to 1.
While •	 NbarT is 1, clock R2, shift PPI1 test data into R2, disable R1; also of previous test serially 
collect PPO1.
Apply •	 PI1 test data to PI1 input, collect response from PO1.
Set •	 NbarT to 0, enable R1, clock once.
Apply •	 PI2 test data to PI2 input, collect response from PO2.
Keeping •	 NbarT at 0, clock once.
Return to step 1.•	7.4.3.3  Partial Scan Versus Full Scan
Obviously, partial scan reduces test time by having fewer bits to shift in. On the other hand, partial scan has a more complex test procedure as discussed above. The main problem with partial scan is that there is no unique partial scan method, and not all circuits can necessarily take advantage of a partial scan method. For finding proper registers to scan, a topological processing of the circuit is necessary. Configuring a circuit for partial scan must be paralleled with extracting a test procedure that works with the scan design.
A partial scan method such as the one described here fits well with pipeline architectures. In this 
case, the test procedure becomes dependent on depth of the pipeline.
7.4.4  Multiple Scan Design
The problem of long scan chain can be moderated by using multiple independent or parallel scan chains. In multiple independent scan chains, each scan register has its shift, load, and clock control, whereas in multiple parallel scan chains, all scan registers are controlled by the same set of signals. If registers to be scanned can be put into groups of equal number of cells, then they can be regarded as parallel scan registers with the same set of control signals. However, if the number of flip-flops in the scan chains in a design are not the same, then they need independent shift and clock enable control signals [9].
252
Fig. 7.51  Multiple parallel scan chains
7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
7.4.4.1   Multiple Scan Architecture
Figure  7.51 shows the familiar model that we have been using for demonstrating our scan design. 
In this figure, R1 and R2 are put into two separate scan chains with Si1 and Si2 inputs and So1 
and So2 outputs. We assume here that registers R1 and R2 have the same length. Therefore, the 
scan chains have become two parallel registers with the same clock and NbarT  control inputs.
7.4.4.2   Multiple Scan Test Procedure
Test generation for a multiple scan design is based on the unfolded model and is no different than test 
generation for a full scan design. The difference is in application of test vectors through serial test inputs.
Input test data for the circuit of Fig.  7.51 consist of that for PI1, PI2, PPI1 , and PPI2 , and test 
responses are for PO1, PO2, PPO1 , and PPO2 . For testing this circuit that has two scan chains for 
PPI1  and PPI2 , individual test data bits from the corresponding test data segments are read and are 
applied simultaneously to Si1 and Si2. When NbarT  is 1, R1 and R2 are in the shift mode and shift 
test data into the registers. While shifting-in is taking place, previous results are collected from So1 
and So2. When shifting is complete, NbarT  is set to 0, parallel test data for PI1 and PI2 are applied 
to the CUT, and PO1 and PO2 are read.
253 7.5 RT Level Scan Design
7.4.4.3  Compared with Full Scan
Multiple scan significantly reduces test time, with no overhead on test generation procedure. The overhead is on extra test pins, and in case of independent scans, on test clock and normal mode controls.
7.4.5  Other Scan Designs
Depending on the architecture of circuit under test, test data length, test procedure, and other such factors, many variations of scan are possible.
A variation of serial scan is random access scan. In this case, the feedback flip-flops in Fig. 7.44 
are put in a memory array. In normal mode of operation, the flip-flops work in parallel mode, and in test mode, individual flip-flops are addressed, read out through scan output, and set to their test values through the scan input. Addressing scan flip-flops in test mode is done by row and column addresses that can be shifted-in, counted to, or a mixture of both.
This method offers fast access to the scan flip-flops, but has a large hardware overhead for imple-
mentation of the memory array. Addressing scan flip-flops and extra pins for this purpose are cause of extra hardware and possibly test time reduction.
Often datapath and control parts of a circuit require different DFT methods. For separating con-
trol and data parts of a circuit, the isolated scan method can be used. We can then use full scan for the control part, and perhaps partial scan for the data part. Such arrangements are architecture dependent, and too many to enumerate. Hardware designers must be aware of the possibilities and decide on the DFT method to use based on the circumstances. Often, there is no single best solution.
7.5  RT Level Scan Design
The previous section discussed various scan designs for the general sequential circuit model of Fig. 7.44 (Huffman model). In this section, we show how these methods apply to an actual RT-level 
design with a datapath and a controller.
A complete RT level design can either be partitioned into its datapath and controller, and each 
part be treated for scan separately, or all the registers and control flip-flops can be lumped together and treated according to the Huffman model of Fig. 7.44. In the example that we present in this 
section, we take the latter approach and treat all flip-flops similarly. The example that we use is the Adding Machine first presented in Chap. 2.
7.5.1  RTL Design Full Scan
As shown in Fig. 2.30, the Adding Machine has two 8-bit registers for AC and IR, and it has a 6-bit 
register for the program counter. With the addition of two control flip-flops, this design has a total of 24 flip-flops. Scan insertion in this design is done as shown in Fig. 7.52. The serial input is the 
left-most bit of AC, and serial output is taken from the least significant control bit.
Although we are showing an RT-level view of the circuit, the actual scan is inserted in the netlist 
of this circuit. The netlist is obtained by synthesizing the behavioral description of the Adding Machine. The scan is inserted in this netlist manually.
254
Fig. 7.52  Full scan Adding Machine
7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
With the scan inserted as shown, data_bus_in  becomes the circuit’s primary input, and 
data_bus_out  and ad_bus  together form the primary output. The testable circuit has 24 pseudo 
primary input and 24 pseudo primary output that are register outputs and inputs, respectively.
For testing this circuit, an unfolded model of the circuit was created, as was done for the 
Residue-5 example of Sect. 7.3. This combinational netlist was used for test generation by HOPE 
for 976 faults. HOPE generated 64 tests and obtained coverage of 80.53%. Each test vector has 32 
bits on the input side and 38 bits on the output side. From the generated 32 bits, 8 bits are used for 
data_bus_in  and the remaining 24 bits are used for the scan path. The outputs are 8, 6, and 24 for 
data_bus_out , ad_bus , and the scan path, respectively.
The testable model of the Adding Machine was obtained by putting together the circuit flip-
flops in one chain. Figure  7.53 shows the virtual tester for this full scan testing of the testable 
netlist of this circuit. Other than the circuit under test being different and the number of shifts in 
the scan flip-flops, this tester is no different from that of the Residue-5 circuit discussed in Sect. 
7.3. Figure  7.53 only shows the loop that is responsible for applying test vectors to the scan-
inserted netlist.
The testbench shown reads 64 test vectors from testFile  and applies them to the full scan circuit 
for every 976 circuit faults. Eight bits of every test vector are applied in parallel and the other 24 
are shifted-in serially by the repeat  loop of Fig.  7.53. This loop also shifts out 24 output bits. The 
if statement shown in Fig.  7.53 compares concatenation of the serially collected output and 14 
parallel outputs with the 38 bits of the expected outputs from testFile .
7.5.2   RTL Design Multiple Scan
This section shows implementation of a multiple scan design in the Adding Machine of Chap. 2. As 
in the previous discussion on full scan, although the circuit diagram looks different than the 
Huffman model of Fig.  7.44, the circuit is still structured as such, and the multiple scan method of 
Sect. 7.4 can be applied to this circuit.
255
module   Tester; 
   . . . . . . 
   CPU_ScanInserted FUT(clk, PI, PO, NbarT, Si, So); 
 always #200 clk = ~clk;
   initial begin 
 while( !$feof(faultFile)) begin
. . .. . .
while((!$feof(testFile))&&(!detected))begin
status = $fscanf(testFile,"%b\n",line); 
pre_expected_st = cur_expected_st; expected_PO     = line[out_size - 1:0]; cur_expected_st = line[st_size + out_size -1 :out_size]; PI = line[st_size+out_size+in_size-1:st_size+out_size];NbarT = 1'b1; #delay; index = stIndex; 
repeat(24) begin
si         = line[index];
               @( posedge clk); 
               saved_st[index - stIndex] = so;  
               index      = index + 1;
end
            NbarT = 1'b0;             @( posedge clk); 
            SampledPO = PO; 
if({pre_expected_st, expected_PO} != {saved_st, SampledPO}) 
begin
               numOfDetected = numOfDetected + 1;                detected = 1; 
end
            #5; 
end//test
         . . .
end//fault
      . . . 
 end//initial
endmodule
Fig. 7.53  Full scan Adding Machine virtual tester7.5 RT Level Scan Design
We use three equal scan chains: one covers AC, second covers IR, and the third covers all of PC 
plus two control flip-flops. Since the size of the scan chains is the same, we can use multiple parallel scan chains that simplifies scan controls. Figure 7.54 shows the three scan chains in the RTL 
diagram of the Adding Machine.
256
module CPU_M_ScanInserted(clk, {reset, data_bus_in}, {adr_bus,rd_mem ,
wr_mem,data_bus_out}, NbarT, ir_Si, ac_Si,
pc_Si, ir_So, ac_So, cntrl_So);  
. . . 
. . . . . . . . .   dff INS_1 (wire_6,wire_96,clk,1'b0,1'b0,ir_en,NbarT,ir_Si, 1'b0);  
  dff INS_2 (wire_2,wire_98,clk,1'b0,1'b0,ir_en,NbarT,wire_6, 1'b0); 
  dff INS_8 (wire_26,wire_173,clk,1'b0,1'b0,ir_en,NbarT,wire_54, 1'b0);  
  // 
  dff INS_9 (wire_130,wire_180,clk,1'b0,1'b0,ac_en,NbarT,ac_Si, 1'b0);  
  dff INS_10(wire_135,wire_186,clk,1'b0,1'b0,ac_en,NbarT,wire_130, 1'b0); 
  dff INS_16(wire_52,wire_208,clk,1'b0,1'b0,ac_en,NbarT,wire_50, 1'b0); 
  // 
  dff INS_17 (wire_65,wire_211,clk,1'b0,1'b0,pc_en,NbarT,pc_Si, 1'b0);  
  dff INS_18(wire_71,wire_216,clk,1'b0,1'b0,pc_en,NbarT,wire_65, 1'b0);
  dff INS_24 (wire_4,wire_249,clk,1'b0,1'b0,pc_en,NbarT,wire_18, 1'b0); 
assign ir_So = wire_26; 
assign ac_So = wire_52; 
 assign cntrl_So = wire_4; 
endmodule
Fig. 7.55  Inserting three scan chainsFig. 7.54  Multiple parallel scans for Adding Machine
7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
The scan chains are manually inserted in the netlist that is the result of synthesizing the Verilog 
code of the Adding Machine. Insertion of scan makes changes in the ports of the netlist and arrange-
ment of its flip-flops. Figure  7.55 shows partial code of the modified netlist.
As shown, NbarT  and three serial inputs ( ir_Si , ac_Si , and pc_Si ) are added to the inputs, and 
three serial scan outputs ( ir_So , ac_So , and cntrl_So ) are added to the output ports of the 
scan-inserted netlist. The three bracketed sections in Fig.  7.55 show the three scan chains. All 
257
module   Tester; 
. . . 
. . . 
. . . CPU_M_ScanInserted FUT(clk, PI, PO, NbarT, ir_Si, ac_Si, pc_Si, ir_So,  
ac_So, cntrl_So);
 
always #200 clk = ~clk;
initial begin 
while( !$feof(faultFile))  begin
while((!$feof(testFile))&&(!detected)) begin
            status = $fscanf(testFile,"%b\n",line); 
            pre_expected_st = cur_expected_st;             expected_PO = line[out_size - 1:0];             cur_expected_st = line[st_size + out_size -1 :out_size];             PI = line[st_size+out_size+in_size-1:st_siz e+out_size];
            NbarT = 1'b1;             #delay;             index = stIndex; 
repeat(8) begin
               ir_Si = line[index];                ac_Si = line[index+8];                pc_Si = line[index+16];                @( posedge clk);
               saved_st[index - stIndex]    = ir_So;                saved_st[index+8 - stIndex]  = ac_So;                saved_st[index+16 - stIndex] = cntrl_So;                index = index + 1;
end
            NbarT = 1'b0;             @( posedge clk); 
            SampledPO = PO; 
if({pre_expected_st, expected_PO} != {saved_st, SampledPO})
            begin               numOfDetected = numOfDetected + 1;                detected = 1; 
end
            #5; 
 end//test
         . . .
end//fault
      . . . 
end//initial
endmodule
Fig. 7.56  Test program for multiple parallel scans7.5 RT Level Scan Design
flip-flops use NbarT as input. The first chain begins with ir_Si and ends with wire_26 ( INS_1 to 
INS_8) that becomes the ir_So output (see assign statements near the end of the code).
The serial input of the second scan is ac_Si, and its serial output is wire_52 (INS_9 to INS_16) 
that becomes ac_So. Finally, the third scan chain begins with pc_Si and ends with cntrl_So ( INS_17 
to INS_24).
For developing a test program for this scan design, we have to consider that our design has three 
equal-length scan chains using the same clock, and the same normal/test mode (NbarT) control input. A virtual tester imitating the behavior of an ATE and its test program for testing our design is shown in Fig. 7.56.  This figure only shows instantiation of the three-scan-chain circuit and the procedure 
258 7 Design for Test by Means of Scan
for application of test data. Other parts of the testbench that are basically the same as code discussed in Sect. 7.3 are not shown here. As shown, instantiation of the netlist, the partial code of 
which is shown in Fig. 7.55, includes NbarT as well as serial inputs and outputs of the three scan 
chains.
The test procedure is enclosed in the initial block shown in Fig. 7.56. All but the repeat loop of 
this procedure is the same as that of Fig. 7.53. The repeat loop here takes every 8 bits of line that 
has the input vector and assigns them to ir_Si, ac_Si, and pc_Si. This happens while NbarT for all 
three chains is 1 (shift mode). After the three assignments, the registers are clocked (simultane-ously), after which outputs from ir_So, ac_So, and cntrl_So are collected in saved_st. These output 
values are positioned in the saved_st vector, 8 bits apart to allow output bits of the same chain to be 
adjacent to each other.
7.5.3  Scan Designs for RTL
It is easy to plan various scan designs for an RT level design by considering its RTL view. Once planning is done, an estimate for the test time can be obtained. The implementation of the planned scan design is done on the synthesized output of the RT-level HDL code. Developing a test program is made easier when thinking of the circuit in terms of its Huffman model after scan insertion.
Other possibilities for scan design for our RTL example of this section are partial scan, and 
multiple independent scans. Alternatively, if we partition the circuit into its datapath and a controller, separate scan design can be implemented for each part. Splitting a circuit into several parts can be implemented by isolated scan.
When planning different scan strategies, the number of test vectors, length of each test vector, 
and fault coverage are the main parameters to consider.
7.6  Summary
This chapter discussed DFT techniques. We started with some ad hoc methods that evolved into isolated scan. All such methods apply to combinational as well as sequential circuits. The scan design, that we started discussing in Sect. 7.3, was primarily focusing on sequential circuits, and its 
main purpose was to turn a sequential circuit into a combinational circuit, such that combinational TG methods could be used for generating tests.
Other scan designs that we discussed basically followed the same rule. In partial scan methods, 
the introduction of pseudo inputs and pseudo outputs does not completely turn a sequential model into a combinational one, and registers still exist in the obtained model. In spite of this, the obtained model can still be used for combinational test generation. The deviation from a pure combinational model affects the test procedure where extra clock pulses compensate for registers that are left in the model.
To show application of scan methods to RT-level designs and demonstrate the applicability of such 
schemes, the last section used a small RT-level design and a Verilog testbench to test its inserted scan. Larger designs can be partitioned into several subcomponents, where each subcomponent may require a different form of scan. Separating a design into its subcomponents can be done by a shift-register for scanning in and scanning out signal values in the interface of the subcomponents.
259 References
References
 1. Abramovici M, Breuer MA, Friedman AD (1994) Digital systems testing and testable design. IEEE Press, Piscataway, NJ, revised printing.
 2. Wilkins BR (1986) Testing digital circuits, an introduction. Van Nostrand Reinhold, Berkshire, UK.
 3. Eichelberger EB, Lindbloom E, Waicukauski JA, Williams TW (1991) Structured logic testing. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.
 4. Agrawal VD, Mercer MR (1982) Testability measures – What do they tell us? In: Proceedings of the International Test Conference, Nov 1982, pp 391–396.
 5. Willaims MJY, Angell JB (1973) Enhancing testability of large-scale integrated circuits via test points and additional logic. IEEE Trans Comput C-22(1):46–60.
 6. Miczo A (2003) Digital logic testing and simulation, 2nd edn. Wiley, Hoboken, NJ.
 7. Cheng K-T, Lin C-J (1995) Timing-driven test point insertion for full-scan and partial-scan bist. In: Proceedings of the International Test Conference, Oct 1995, pp 506–514.
 8. Cheng K-T, Agrawal VD ( 1990) A partial scan method for sequential circuits with feedback. IEEE Trans Comput 39(4):544–548.
 9. Narayanan S, Gupta R, Breuer MA (1993) Optimal configuring of multiple scan chains. IEEE Trans Comput 42(9):1121–1131.
 10. Jha NK, Gupta S (2003) Testing of digital systems, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, UK.
wwwwwwwwwwww     
261A different DFT method than the scan of the previous chapter is boundary scan that primarily targets the boundary of a CUT, instead of the scan whose focus is on the inside of chip or a core. Boundary scan that has become an IEEE standard (IEEE std.1149.1) does not interfere in the design of a core, and its main purpose is to isolate the core being tested from other devices on a board or chip. This chapter discusses architecture, application, and operation of this IEEE standard. We use BS-1149.1 to refer to this standard.
Section 8.2 discusses the architecture and hardware of BS-1149.1. We use Verilog code to cover 
the details of the major parts of the architecture. BS-1149.1 uses instructions for testing a chip’s internal and external connections and isolating it from its surroundings. Section 8.3 covers the 
related instructions and roles they play in testing a core or a chip. We wrap up our presentation of the 1149.1 standard by a complete example in Sect. 8.5. Another standard related to 1149.1 is the 
boundary scan description language (BSDL) that will be discussed in Sect. 8.6. This chapter also 
presents several arrangements for using multiple boundary scan chains on a chip or a board.
8.1  Boundary Scan Basics
Due to complexity of digital components, and multilayer printed circuit boards, in-circuit testing by bed-of-nails probing technique for isolating components is no longer an easy solution. Furthermore, testing complex components and multicore chips is not possible by off-chip test methods. It is thus required to be able to access various components and/or cores and be able to isolate them from each other, without a significant increase in the cost of test [1].
In 1985, joint test action group (JTAG) that consisted of designers, manufactures, and test engineers 
was formed. This group established a set of specifications for shifting serial test data into a board, for testing it. Later in 1990, these specifications become the IEEE std.1149.1. This standard set a unique set of rules to follow for test engineers, ATE developers, and test program developers [1 ].
With the guidelines and constraints that this standard provided, a flexible, but yet standard set of 
design rules for designing test access mechanism at the board level was created. The standard was usable in all digital designs, and eased the development of ATE hardware and software by setting a standard.
The IEEE std.1149.1 is also known as boundary scan, since it mainly consists of a scan register 
on the ports of a component for testing its interconnects and core logic. Boundary scan standard eliminates the need for probing a component’s pins with a physical probe. The method improves controllability and observability within a PCB or a chip. Figure 8.1 shows how this test standard is 
incorporated into a chip along with the chip’s core logic.Chapter 8
Standard IEEE Test Access Methods
Z. Navabi, Digital System Test and Testable Design: Using HDL Models and Architectures,DOI 10.1007/978-1-4419-7548-5_8, © Springer Science+Business Media, LLC 2011
262 8 Standard IEEE Test Access Methods
Boundary scan uses a chain of scan flip-flops to shift test data into the inputs of a core logic being 
tested, and uses the same mechanism to move test response out. The scan flip-flops isolate a core 
from its neighboring cores, and testing of each core is done independently.
The boundary scan standard works in two modes of noninvasive and pin-permission. In the non-
invasive mode, independent from board or chip core logic, the test hardware (BS-1149.1) commu-
nicates with the outside world for bringing in test data, or transmitting response out of the system. 
This is done while the rest of the system performs its normal functions [ 1].
In the pin-permission mode, the BS-1149.1 hardware takes over input and output pins of a core 
logic for testing its interconnects. In this mode, the core logic is disconnected from its environments 
and is only operated by test logic. After completion of a pin-permission mode operation, it is impor -
tant for the test hardware to be put back in the noninvasive mode to avoid bus conflicts while the 
system performs its normal functions.
8.2  Boundary Scan Architecture
Figure 8.1 shows an overall view of how boundary scan is incorporated on a chip. As shown, test 
hardware that consists of controllers, registers, and decoders sits on a chip along with the chip’s core 
logic. The boundary scan test hardware also has a scan register that wraps around the core logic to 
control its communication with the outside world. The core logic and BS-1149.1 hardware form a 
single testable package like a chip on a board or a core on a chip.
Figure 8.2 shows the main details of the boundary scan hardware. Decoder, register cells, a state 
machine, ports, and other hardware details are shown in this figure. In this section, hardware struc-
tures shown in this figure along with their Verilog codes will be discussed.
8.2.1   Test Access Port
As shown in Fig. 8.2, BS-1149.1 adds several pins to the normal inputs and outputs of a core for 
test data and test control. There are a total of four or five (one is optional) such signals. These pins 
are for test purposes only, and cannot be used by the core logic for its normal functionalities.
TMS , TCLK , and TRST  are control pins. TMS  (Test Mode Select) is used for putting the test 
protocol in a given state for data or for instruction. TCLK  (Test Clock) is the main test clock input 
that runs all the corresponding test hardware. TRST  (Test Reset) is an optional pin and, if used, 
resets the test hardware into its noninvasive mode [ 2].
Fig. 8.1  General structure of 
BS-1149.1
263 8.2 Boundary Scan Architecture
There are also two data pins, TDI and TDO . TDI (Test Data In) is for shifting serial test data and 
instruction into the chip, and thus, into the BS-1149.1 registers. TDO  (Test Data Out) is the serial 
output of this standard test protocol [ 2].
It is important to note that pins that are not used should be left floating high. This prevents inter -
ference of such pins in the normal functionality of core and test logic.
8.2.2  BS-1149.1 Registers
Several registers form the main hardware of the BS-1149.1 standard. These are basically shift reg-
isters with special hardware to comply with the standard’s various modes of operation. The registers 
are categorized into instruction and data registers [ 2].
Fig. 8.2  Details of boundary scan standard
264 8 Standard IEEE Test Access Methods
8.2.2.1  Instruction Register
The boundary scan standard has instructions with certain bit patterns that will be discussed in Sect. 8.3. The instructions define the operation of the standard in test mode. An instruction register of at least 2 bits holds the instructions and is a mandatory part of this standard.
As with all the operations of the boundary scan standard, the instructions are shifted in serially. 
In addition, there are instances that a new instruction being shifted must be isolated from the existing instruction in the register. Because of such requirements, the standard full-feature instruction register cell consists of two flip-flops, one for shift or capture and another for update.
Figure 8.3 shows the structure of an instruction register cell. The shift (or capture) flip-flop takes 
serial instruction bits from its Sin (or TDI) input, i.e., shift, or it takes parallel data from Din inputs, 
i.e., capture. When ShiftIR is 1, serial instruction bits from the previous cell’s Sout or TDI are shifted 
into this flip-flop. This flip-flop is clocked by the ClockIR signal that is generated by the standard’s 
controller. After completion of shift or capture, the rising edge of UpdateIR causes data available on 
the outputs of the first flip-flops to be loaded into the instruction register. In Fig. 8.3, instruction 
register outputs are designated by Dout. The two flip-flops shown in this figure have active low 
asynchronous reset that causes the resetting of the flip-flops when RstBar becomes 0.
Figure 8.4 shows code of an instruction register cell. As shown, two clocked always statements describe 
this register cell. The use of both flip-flops is not mandatory, and simple structures can also be used.
Fig. 8.3  Instruction register cell structure
module InstructionRegister1bit (Din, Sin, ShiftIR, UpdateIR,
ClockIR, RstBar, Sout, Dout);
   input  Din, Sin, ShiftIR, UpdateIR; 
   input  ClockIR, RstBar; 
   output Sout;    output reg Dout;    wire D_DF1;    reg Q_DF1;    assign D_DF1 = ShiftIR ? Sin: Din;   always @(posedge ClockIR, negedge RstBar)
always @(posedge UpdateIR, negedge RstBar)      if (!RstBar) Q_DF1 <= 0; else Q_DF1 <= D_DF1;
      if (!RstBar) Dout <= 0; else  Dout <= Q_DF1; 
   assign Sout = Q_DF1;endmodule 
Fig. 8.4  Instruction register Verilog code
265 8.2 Boundary Scan Architecture
8.2.2.2  Data Registers
The instruction that is loaded in the instruction register causes one of the data registers to go between TDI and TDO serial input and serial output. Any register that can logically be placed in the 
TDI, TDO serial path is referred to as a data register. A data register may have only a single cell, or 
as many as the core logic’s input–output pins. Data register cell structure is similar to that of the instruction register. However, based on the specific data register and applications, other cell type may also be used. Description of various BS-1149.1 data registers follows.
Bypass register. The bypass register is a mandatory boundary scan data register, and it is used to 
bypass a core from scan chain so that serially shifted data can reach the target core quicker. The bypass register is a single-bit register and its cell structure only uses the shift or capture flip-flop as shown 
in Fig. 8.5. The bypass register can be loaded with a 0 through its Din input. BS-1149.1 uses this feature 
for chain integrity. In the bypass mode (ShiftBY = 1), TDI is clocked into the bypass register on the rising 
edge of ClockBY. Figure 8.6 shows the Verilog code of this register. This is a subset of the Verilog 
code of Fig. 8.4.
Device identification register. Device identification register (DIR) is an optional register in the 
1149.1 standard. If used, this is a 32-bit register that contains an identification code for the core logic that it is a part of. The structure of this register is similar to that of the instruction register shown in Fig. 8.3. Core logic id that is stored in this register can be shifted out serially that becomes 
available for chain integrity testing.
Boundary scan register. The boundary scan register that is considered as a data register in 
BS-1149.1 is the most important of all the registers of this standard. The boundary scan register is placed on the boundary of the core logic that is being tested. The register cells go between external pins (interconnects) and ports of the core logic. This mechanism improves controllability and observability of core logic’s inputs and outputs.
Fig. 8.5  Bypass register cell structure
module ByPassRegister (Din, Sin, ShiftBY, ClockBY, RstBar, TDO);   input Din, Sin;   input ShiftBY, ClockBY, RstBar;   output reg TDO;   wire D_DF;   assign D_DF = ShiftBY ? Sin: Din;   always @(posedge ClockBY, negedge RstBar)       if(!RstBar) TDO <= 0; else TDO <= D_DF;endmodule
Fig. 8.6  Bypass register Verilog description
266 8 Standard IEEE Test Access Methods
Figure 8.7 shows a typical boundary scan register cell. Signals Din and Dout go between the 
interconnect and the core logic. If this cell is used on a core logic’s input, Din connects to the inter -
connect and Dout to the port of the core logic. For an output port, this arrangement is reversed. 
Signals Sin and Sout are used for shifting serial data that enter the register on the TDI port and exit 
the register on the TDO port of the standard.
Like the instruction register cell, the boundary scan register cell has a shift or capture flip-flop 
and an update one. The update flip-flop holds the contents of the boundary scan register. Two multi-
plexers in this structure are for proper routing of data in various modes of operation of this cell.
In the normal mode of operation, the ModeControl of the output multiplexer is 0, and Din connects 
to the Dout. In this mode, ShiftBR, ClockBR, and UpdateBR have no effect on Dout, i.e., Dout receives 
data directly from Din. This mode allows the noninvasive operation, where serial test data can be shifted 
in, and clocked into the update flip-flops, without interfering in the normal operation of the core logic. 
Another noninvasive operation is capturing data on Din in the capture flop-flops and then shifting it out. 
In the pin-permission test mode, the select input of the multiplexer on the output side of the register cell (ModeControl) becomes 1, which causes the update flip-flops to be connected to Dout cell outputs.
As mentioned, if used as an input cell, Dout connects to the input of the core logic, and if used as an 
output cell, Dout will be connected to the interconnect. If the core logic has a bidirectional pin, then we 
use three boundary scan cells. One for the input side, with its Dout connected to the core’s input, one on 
the output side with Dout connected to the interconnect, and the third cell for driving the bidirectional 
tristate buffer. This arrangement is shown in Fig. 8.8. V erilog code corresponding to a boundary scan cell 
is shown in Fig. 8.9.
User-defined registers. Users are able to add their custom user-defined registers. The only restriction 
is that, when used for test purposes, such registers must logically be placed between TDI and TDO 
ports for shift path consistency.
Fig. 8.7  Boundary scan register cell
Fig. 8.8  Using a BS cell in bidirectional ports
267 8.2 Boundary Scan Architecture
8.2.3  TAP Controller
All boundary scan operations are controlled by a simple controller that has sixteen states. The con-troller uses TCLK for the clock, TMS for its input, and, if used, TRST for resetting it. The controller is called the test access port (TAP) controller, and by issuing its control signals it controls the opera -
tion of the instruction and various data registers. Figure 8.10 shows the BS-1149.1 TAP controller. 
Going from one state to another is controlled by TCLK synchronized 1 and 0 values on TMS. The 
controller states are arranged in two columns, where the left column states are for controlling the data registers, and the right column states for the instruction register.
The TAP controller has two starting states, seven data register control states, and seven instruc-
tion register control states. Holding TMS high for five or more clocks always returns control to the 
reset state. This feature prevents performing unwanted operations for unexpected glitches on TMS. 
Figure 8.11 shows the synthesizable Verilog code of the TAP controller. State names and signals are 
according to the diagram of Fig. 8.10. States of the controller will be discussed below [2].
Test_Logic_Reset state. As shown in Fig. 8.10, the first state of the controller is the reset state. 
This state is entered either by issuing TRST (not shown) or by TMS being one for five consecutive 
clocks. While in this state, a RstBar reset signal is issued to all the boundary scan components to 
reset them to their initial states. This signal loads a null pattern in the instruction register to prevent the test logic from interfering in the normal operation of core logic.
Run_Test_Idle state. The next state of the TAP controller that is entered if TMS is 0 is Run_Test_Idle. 
As for as the operation of BS-1149.1 is concerned, this state is an idle state. However, contents of instruction and data registers remain the same as what they were in the previous state. In this state the core logic can perform its own self-test operations. When TMS becomes 1, the boundary scan 
exits this idle mode and enters the next state.
Select_DR_Scan state. The Select_DR_Scan state of the TAP controller is a temporary state in 
which the controller either continues with data register operations or gets ready for performing operations related to the instruction registers.
Select_IR_Scan state. As with the Select_DR_Scan, the Select_IR_Scan is also a temporary state 
in which either the reset state or the instruction register states are decided.module BSRegister1bit(Din, Sin, ShiftBR, UpdateBR, ClockBR,
                      RstBar, ModeControl,Sout, Dou t); 
   input Din, Sin, ShiftBR, UpdateBR;    input ClockBR, RstBar, ModeControl;    output Sout, Dout;   wire D_DF1;   reg   assign D_DF1 = ShiftBR ? Sin: Din;  
   always @(posedge ClockBR, negedge RstBar)
   always @(posedge UpdateBR, negedge RstBar)      if (!RstBar) Q_DF1 <= 0; else Q_DF1 <= D_DF1;      if(!RstBar) Q_DF2 <= 0; else Q_DF2 <= Q_DF1;   assign Dout = ModeControl ? Q_DF2: Din;   assign Sout = Q_DF1;endmodule  Q_DF1, Q_DF2;
Fig. 8.9  BS cell Verilog code
268 8 Standard IEEE Test Access Methods
Capture_IR ( Capture_DR) states. In the Capture_IR state, the instruction register ClockIR is 
issued that causes it to perform a parallel load (see Fig. 8.3). This will load “01” in the least sig-
nificant bits of the instruction register, and if the instruction register is longer than 2 bits, the rest of the bits will receive a predefined value that is treated as a null instruction.
In the Capture_DR state and other data register-related control states, a specific data register that 
is selected by the instruction register is targeted. Capture_DR state issues ClockDR of the selected 
data register, i.e., boundary scan, identification register, bypass, etc.
For the boundary scan data register, Capture_DR state causes it to capture data on Din. For an 
input cell, this means data from the interconnects are loaded into the capture flip-flops, and for an 
output cell, capture state captures the output from the core logic in this flip-flop.
The next state after Capture_IR ( Capture_DR) is Shift_IR ( Shift_DR) that is entered if TMS is 0. 
If shifting is not required, the TAP controller moves toward exiting the data register branch of the control states.
Shift_IR ( Shift_DR) states. In the Shift_IR the instruction register is placed between TDI and 
TDO. While in this state, rising edges of ClockIR cause captured data to be shifted out on Sout and 
new serial data moved from Sin. In this state a new instruction bit pattern that appears on TDI will 
be shifted in the capture flip-flops. After completion of shifting the proper bit pattern, the instruc-
tion is loaded when TAP controller goes into the Update_IR state.Select_DR_Scan
Capture_DR
Shift_DR
Exit1_DR
Pause_DR
Exit2_DR
Update_DRSelect_IR_Scan
Capture_IR
Shift_IR
Exit1_IR
Pause_IR
Exit2_IR
Update_IRTest_Logic_Reset
Run_Test_Idle1
0111
0
1
0
0
1
1
00
1
1
0010
0
1
0
1
10
00
Data Register Column Instruction Register Column101
01
Fig. 8.10  TAP controller
269 8.2 Boundary Scan Architecture
Fig. 8.11  TAP controller Verilog codemodule TAPController (TMS, TCLK, RstBar, sel, Enable, ShiftIR,
                      ClockIR, UpdateIR, ShiftDR, ClockDR, 
                      UpdateDR); 
. . .
   always  @(posedge TCLK) begin
case (TAP_STATE)
Test_Logic_Reset : 
if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Run_Test_Idle;
else if(TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Test_Logic_Reset;
Run_Test_Idle: 
if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Select_DR_Scan;  
else if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Run_Test_Idle;  
Select_DR_Scan : 
if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Capture_DR ;
else if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Select_IR_Scan;
Capture_DR: 
if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Shift_DR; 
else if (TMS == 1'b1)TAP_STATE = Exit1_DR;  
Shift_DR: 
if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Exit1_DR; 
else if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Shift_DR; 
Exit1_DR: 
if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Pause_DR; 
else if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Update_DR;  
Pause_DR: 
if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Exit2_DR; 
else if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Pause_DR; 
Exit2_DR: 
if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Update_DR;  
else if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Shift_DR; 
Update_DR: 
if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Run_Test_Idle;  
else if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Select_DR_Scan;  
Select_IR_Scan:  
if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Capture_IR; 
else if (TMS == 1'b1)TAP_STATE = Test_Logic_Reset;  
Capture_IR: 
if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Shift_IR; 
else if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Exit1_IR; 
Shift_IR: 
if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Exit1_IR; 
else if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Shift_IR; 
Exit1_IR: 
if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Pause_IR; 
else if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Update_IR;  
Pause_IR: 
if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Exit2_IR; 
else if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Pause_IR; 
Exit2_IR: 
if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Update_IR;
else if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Shift_IR;
    Update_IR: 
       if (TMS == 1'b0) TAP_STATE = Run_Test_Idle;
       else if (TMS == 1'b1) TAP_STATE = Select_DR_Scan;
endcase
   end // end always
270 8 Standard IEEE Test Access Methods
The Shift_DR state is similar to the Shift_IR expect that in the former case serial data are shifted 
in the selected data register (see Fig. 8.7). In this case ShiftDR signal is set to 1, and shifting occurs 
on the rising edge of ClockDR.
If the selected data register is the boundary scan register, there are potentially many data bits 
that are to be shifted. If the external tester has limited buffer memory, there may be a delay in catching up with the speed of serial shifting. For this purpose, BS-1149.1 allows a pause while the external tester fetches more data for its buffer memory. This is achieved by setting TMS  
so that the controller goes into the Pause_DR state via Exit1_DR and return to Shift_DR via 
Exit2_DR.
While in Pause_DR, for the necessary amount of time that the external tester needs to fetch 
its next block of test data, TMS remains 0, which keeps the controller in the pause state. There 
is no need for this feature of BS-1149.1 to be used for smaller data registers such as bypass and identification register and definitely not necessary for the instruction register where instruction registers are never larger than several bits wide.Fig. 8.11  (continued)   always @(negedg e TCLK) begin
RstBar = 1'b1; Enable = 1'b0; ShiftIR = 1'b0; ShiftDR = 1'b0; ClockIR = 1'b1; UpdateIR = 1'b0; ClockDR = 1'b1; UpdateDR = 1'b0;  
case (TAP_STATE)
          Test_Logic_Reset: 
             RstBar = 1'b0; 
          Shift_IR: begin
        Enable = 1'b1; 
        ShiftIR = 1'b1; 
        ClockIR = 1'b0;  
            end 
     Shift_DR: begin
          Enable = 1'b1;   
        ShiftDR = 1'b1; 
     ClockDR = 1'b0;  
           end 
     Capture_IR: 
        ClockIR = 1'b0; 
     Update_IR:  
             UpdateIR = 1'b1; 
     Capture_DR: 
        ClockDR = 1'b0; 
     Update_DR:  
        UpdateDR = 1'b1; 
     endcase 
end // end always 
. . . endmodule  
271 8.3 Boundary Scan Test Instructions
Exit1_IR ( Exit1_DR) states. As mentioned above, the Exit1 states are either used for transition 
into the pause states or for preparing for existing. In either case, no control signals are issued by the TAP controller while it is in Exit1_IR or Exit1_DR states.
Pause_IR ( Pause_DR) states. As mentioned above, pause states allow time for an external data 
to fetch data from its mass storage devices. No control signals are issued in either of the two pause states. Generally, instructions are short and do not require such a pause state. Therefore, Pause_IR 
and Exit2_IR may be eliminated from the instruction branch of the TAP controller.
Exit2_IR ( Exit2_DR) states. Exit2 states of the TAP controller are auxiliary states that are used 
for returning to shifting or completing register loading and eventual exiting.
Update_IR ( Update_DR) states. After an instruction is shifted in the instruction register’s cap-
ture flip-flops, or a complete test vector is shifted in the boundary scan register’s capture flip-flops, 
the TAP controller moves in the corresponding update state.
In the Update_IR state UpdateIR signal is issued (see Fig. 8.3), and on its rising edge, the bit 
pattern in the shift register chain loads into the instruction register as the current instruction. Once this is done, signals corresponding to this new instruction are activated, and a specific data regis-ter will be selected. The decoder unit of BS-1149.1 standard uses the instruction register and TAP controller signals to issue appropriate selection and clocking signals to the data registers.
The Update_DR state loads test data bits that have been shifted in the shift register chain of a 
data register into its update flip-flops. For a boundary scan register that is used as an input cell, this 
event is what is needed to make test data available for the inputs of the core logic. For an output cell, the data that have been loaded into the update flip-flops can now become available on the 
interconnects.
8.2.4  The Decoder Unit
The decoder unit is a combinational circuit that takes the existing instruction in the instruction register and signals from the TAP controller as inputs and issues signals to the appropriate data register.
8.2.5  Select and O ther Units
Figure 8.2 shows two multiplexers, a flip-flop, and a tristate buffer in the architecture of boundary 
scan, all of which lead to the TDO output. The multiplexer shown near the data registers has its 
select inputs driven by the Decoder Unit, and selects the data register output specified by the current 
instruction. Another multiplexer whose select input is driven by the TAP controller selects a data register output or the instruction register output to go on the TDO of the BS-1149.1.
The flip-flop on the serial output before TDO is for synchronizing serial transmission of data 
with the test clock. Finally, the tristate buffer shown in this figure puts TDO in the float state when 
not in use.
8.3  Boundary Scan Test Instructions
Another important part of BS-1149.1 contributing to its functionality and test performance are its instructions. Boundary scan instructions are categorized into three groups. The first group is the mandatory instructions that must be implemented in any BS-1149.1 compliant test circuitry. 
272 8 Standard IEEE Test Access Methods
The second group is the optional instructions that are defined in the standard, but designers have a choice of not using them. The third group of instructions is user-defined that are there for extensibility and flexibility of the standard. What follows discusses operation of the mandatory instructions [3 ].
8.3.1  Mandatory Instructions
Mandatory instructions have been referred to as the mandatory module in the more recent BS-1149.1 documentations. These instructions are Bypass, Sample, Preload, Extest, and Intest, and the details 
and examples of which will be shown below.8.3.1.1  Bypass Instruction
The Bypass instruction is used for shortening the scan path and bypassing those units that do not 
participate in a certain round of test. The data register of a component that is being bypassed becomes a single cell that is the bypass register. As far as the bypassed component is concerned, it only takes one clock cycle to pass through it and reach the next core. Figure 8.12 shows that reducing 
the length of scan chain is achieved by putting the left-hand side hardware unit in the bypass mode. This reduction causes the test data to get to the component shown on the right-hand side of this figure. Note: In the boundary scan cells shown in this figure C stands for Capture flip-flop and U 
for Update.
Putting a boundary scan compliant chip or core in the bypass mode can be done while it is per -
forming its normal functions. For this purpose, the TAP controller of the chip first goes into its instruction side of the states and shifts and updates the chip’s instruction register with the code for Bypass. It then moves into the data side of the states, and in Capture_DR loads a 0 into the Bypass 
register cell. Following this state, it moves into the Shift_DR state (see Fig. 8.12) and remains there 
for as long as it is being bypassed.
Figure 8.12 also shows the chip that is not being bypassed. As shown, the boundary scan register 
of the chip on the right is selected and the serial data are shifted into this data register. The shifting here also occurs in the Shift_DR state of its TAP controller.
8.3.1.2  Sample Instruction
The mandatory BS-1149.1 sample instruction works in the noninvasive mode and takes a snap-shot 
of the input interconnect values and outputs of core logic. After the sampling, the data will be shifted out through TDO. Figure 8.13 shows the boundary scan cells while the sample instruction is 
being performed and when the sampled data are being shifted out.
This instruction begins with its corresponding code loaded into the instruction register in Update_
IR state of the TAP controller. This will cause the boundary scan register to be selected and logically placed between TDI and TDO. The TAP controller then moves to its left branch into the data register 
states. In the Capture_DR state, while the core logic is performing its normal functions, its inputs 
from the interconnect and outputs from the core are captured in the capture flip-flops of the scan cells 
(left-hand side diagram of Fig. 8.13). This takes place because in the Capture_DR state, while the 
Sample is in the instruction register, the BS-1149.1 decoder logic sets ShiftBR = 0 and issues 
ClockBR. (Note that BR is for Boundary Register-related signals from the decoder logic).
273 8.3 Boundary Scan Test Instructions
After capturing has been done, the TAP controller moves into the Shift_DR  state (right-hand side 
part of Fig. 8.13), in which ShiftBR  is set to 1, while in this state, the sampled values will be shifted 
out through TDO .
8.3.1.3   Preload  Instruction
Another BS-1149.1 mandatory, noninvasive instruction is the Preload  instruction. Once again, the 
execution of this instruction begins by first entering the instruction branch of the TAP controller and 
loading the corresponding instruction bit pattern in the Update_IR  state of the controller. The 
Preload  instruction initializes the scan cells.
Figure 8.14 shows the operation of the Preload  instruction. After this instruction is loaded in the 
instruction register, the TAP controller moves into the Shift_DR  state to perform the first phase of 
the instruction, while in this state, SelectBR  and ShiftBR  are set to 1, causing the Boundary register 
to be selected and put in the shift mode. This is shown on the right-hand side diagram of Fig. 8.14. 
After the completion of shifting the necessary test data, the TAP controller is put into the Update_
DR state to perform the second phase of this instruction. As shown in the right-hand side diagram 
Fig. 8.12  Bypass  instruction execution
Fig. 8.13  Sample  instruction execution
Fig. 8.14  Preload  instruction execution
275 8.3 Boundary Scan Test Instructions
of Fig. 8.14, in the Update_DR state of the controller, UpdateBR clocks the update flip-flops of the 
boundary scan register. Data accumulated in the update flip-flops can be used in the other test 
instructions.
Note that there is no conflict between operations of Sample and Preload instructions as far as the 
flip-flop signaling is concerned. Therefore it is permissible to use the same opcode for both instructions.8.3.1.4  Extest Instructions
An important instruction in the 1149.1 boundary scan standard is Extest. This instruction tests 
interconnections between two chips. The instruction operates in pin-permission mode, which means that it takes over the interconnects, and the chips whose interconnections are being tested cannot operate in their normal mode of operation.
The first time this instruction is being executed it must follow the complete execution of Preload. 
As discussed, Preload loads test data into update flip-flops of the boundary scan cells. Following 
Preload, as soon as Extest is loaded into the Instruction register, the preloaded test data become 
available on the output pins. After completion of the first round of Extest testing, new test data will 
be shifted as test response from the previous round of testing is being shifted out. The discussion that follows assumes that the first round of testing has already taken place.
As shown in Fig. 8.15, when the Extest instruction is active, interconnections between outputs of 
a core logic and inputs of another are being tested. For this purpose, after test data have been shifted into the capture flip-flops of the source core logic, its TAP controller goes into Update_DR state to 
load the test data into the update flip-flops (see the left-hand side diagram of Fig. 8.15). In this state, 
with ModeControl set to 1, the test data will be driving the outputs, and through the interconnec-
tions, the inputs of the next chip.
The chip receiving the test data is shown on the right-hand side diagram of Fig. 8.16. As shown, 
in the Capture_DR state of TAP controller of this chip, data from the pins are clocked into the cap-
ture flip-flops of the boundary scan cells. At the end of this operation, test data from the left chip outputs are now clocked into the right chip’s scan cells.
In the next phase of Extest, TAP controller of source and destination chips are put in Shift_DR 
state. This phase is shown in Fig. 8.17. The output cells of the left chip are receiving new test data, 
while the input cells of the right chip are shifting out the test response. Completion of this phase prepares the output cells of the left chip for the next round of testing, for which the procedure shown in Fig. 8.15 starts again.
8.3.1.5  Intest Instruction
The procedure for Intest is similar to Extest for shifting in test data and shifting out response. While 
Extest is performed on two interconnecting chips, Intest applies test data to inputs of a chip and reads 
out the test response from the output of the same chip. Intest examines the functionality of the core 
logic, and is performed in pin-permission mode, which takes control inputs and outputs of core logic.
As with Extest, the Preload instruction precedes Intest. This provides test data in the update flip-
flops (see the right-hand side diagram of Fig. 8.14) of the scan cells that are on the inputs of the 
core logic. These test data are used in the first round of testing. As soon as the Intest instruction is 
loaded into the instruction register in the Update_IR state, the contents of update flip-flops of the 
input cells will drive the inputs of core logic.
276 8 Standard IEEE Test Access Methods
After the first round of testing, the test data inputs will be provided serially, while the test 
response from the previous round is shifted out. As shown on the right-hand side diagram of Fig. 
8.18, data shifted in the capture  flip-flops will be applied to the inputs of the core logic in the 
Update_DR  state. For this purpose, boundary register is selected, ModeControl  is issued, and 
UpdateBR  of the corresponding flip-flops is activated.
The left-hand side diagram of Fig. 8.18 shows the output scan flip-flops during the execution of 
the Intest  instruction. When the TAP controller reaches the Capture_DR  state, the output scan reg-
ister cells parallel load the outputs of core logic in their capture  flip-flops.
After the completion of a round of test, the captured response must be shifted out and new test 
data shifted in. This is done when the TAP controller enters its Shift_DR  state. Shift process in Intest  
is similar to that of Fig. 8.17 for Extest , except that all the inputs and output cells being shifted 
belong to the same chip.
Fig. 8.15  Output cells updating test data in Extest
